Achaemenid Empire
𐎧𐏁𐏂
Xšassa (Old Persian)
"The Empire"[1]
550 BC–330 BC
Standard of Cyrus the Great
Capital
Babylon[2] (main
capital),
Pasargadae,
Ecbatana, Susa,
Persepolis
Common languages
Old Persian[a]
Aramaic[b]
Babylonian[3]
Median
Greek[4]
Achaemenid Empire
The Achaemenid Empire (/əˈkiːmənɪd/; 𐎧𐏁𐏂, Xšassa (Old Persian) "The
Empire"[1] c. 550–330 BC), also called the First Persian Empire,[11]
was an empire based in Western Asia founded by Cyrus the Great.
Ranging at its greatest extent from the Balkans and Eastern Europe
proper in the west to the Indus Valley in the east, it was larger than any
previous empire in history, spanning 5.5 million square kilometres.
Incorporating various peoples of different origins and faiths, it is notable
for its successful model of a centralised, bureaucratic administration
(through satraps under the King of Kings), for building infrastructure
such as road systems and a postal system, the use of an official language
across its territories, and the development of civil services and a large
professional army. The empire's successes inspired similar systems in
later empires.[12]
By the 7th century BC, the Persians had settled in the south-western
portion of the Iranian Plateau in the region of Persis,[13] which came to
be their heartland.[14] From this region, Cyrus the Great advanced to
defeat the Medes, Lydia, and the Neo-Babylonian Empire, establishing
the Achaemenid Empire. Alexander the Great, an avid admirer of Cyrus
the Great,[15] conquered most of the empire by 330 BC.[16] Upon
Alexander's death, most of the empire's former territory came under the
rule of the Ptolemaic Kingdom and Seleucid Empire, in addition to other
minor territories which gained independence at that time. The Iranian
elites of the central plateau reclaimed power by the second century BC
under the Parthian Empire.[14]
The Achaemenid Empire is noted in Western history as the antagonist of
the Greek city-states during the Greco-Persian Wars and for the
emancipation of the Jewish exiles in Babylon. The historical mark of the
empire went far beyond its territorial and military influences and
included cultural, social, technological and religious influences as well.
Despite the lasting conflict between the two states, many Athenians
adopted Achaemenid customs in their daily lives in a reciprocal cultural
exchange,[17] some being employed by or allied to the Persian kings. The
impact of Cyrus's edict is mentioned in Judeo-Christian texts, and the
This is an old revision of this page, as edited by Chewings72 (talk | contribs) at 11:50, 29 October
2018 (→‎Cultural phase: Amend year of the Peace of Antalcidas to be consistent with relevant Wikipedia
articles). The present address (URL) is a permanent link to this revision, which may differ
significantly from the current revision.
The Achaemenid Empire at its greatest
territorial extent,
under the rule of Darius I (522 BC to 486
BC)
Elamite[5]
Sumerian[c]
Egyptian
many others
Religion
Zoroastrianism,
Babylonian
religion[6]
Government
Monarchy
King (xšāyaϑiya) or
King of Kings
(xšāyaϑiya
xšāyaϑiyānām)
 
• 559–529 BC
Cyrus the Great
• 336–330 BC
Darius III
Historical era
Classical
antiquity
• Persian Revolt
550 BC
• Conquest of Lydia
547 BC
• Conquest of
Babylon
539 BC
• Conquest of Egypt
525 BC
• Greco-Persian
Wars
499–449 BC
• Corinthian War
395–387 BC
• Second conquest
of Egypt
343 BC
• Fall to Macedonia
330 BC
Area
500 BC[7][8]
5,500,000 km2
(2,100,000 sq mi)
Population
• 500 BC[9]
17 million to 35
million
Currency
Daric, siglos
Preceded by
Succeeded by
Median
Empire
Neo-
Babylonian
Empire
Lydia
Twenty-sixth
Dynasty of
Egypt
Gandhara
Kingdom
Sogdia
Massagetae
Empire of
Alexander
the Great
Twenty-
eighth
Dynasty
of Egypt
a. ^ Native language.
Relief of Cyrus the Great in
Pasargadae, with corresponding
drawing.
empire was instrumental in the spread of Zoroastrianism as far east as
China. The empire also set the tone for the politics, heritage and history
of Iran (also officially known as Persia).[18]
Astronomical year numbering
Dates are approximate, consult particular article
for details
The Persian nation contains a number of tribes as listed
here. ... : the Pasargadae, Maraphii, and Maspii, upon which all
the other tribes are dependent. Of these, the Pasargadae are the
most distinguished; they contain the clan of the Achaemenids
from which spring the Perseid kings. Other tribes are the
Panthialaei, Derusiaei, Germanii, all of which are attached to
the soil, the remainder -the Dai, Mardi, Dropici, Sagarti, being
nomadic.
— Herodotus, Histories 1.101 & 125
The Achaemenid Empire was
created by nomadic Persians. The
name "Persia" is a Greek and
Latin pronunciation of the native
word referring to the country of
the people originating from Persis
(Old Persian: 𐎱𐎠𐎼𐎿, Pārsa), their
home territory located north of the
Persian Gulf in south-western
Iran.[19]
The Achaemenid Empire was not
the first Iranian empire, as by 6th
century BC another group of
ancient 
Iranian 
peoples 
had
already established the short-lived Median Empire.[19] The Medes had
History
Achaemenid timeline
Origin
b. ^ Official language and lingua
franca.[10]
c. ^ Literary language in Babylonia.
originally been the dominant Iranian group in the region, freeing
themselves of Assyrian domination and rising to power at the end of the
seventh century BC, incorporating the Persians into their empire.
The Iranian peoples had arrived in the region of what is today Iran c. 1000 BC[20] and had for a number of centuries
fallen under the domination of the Neo-Assyrian Empire (911–609 BC), based in northern Mesopotamia. However, the
Medes (together with the Scythians, Babylonians), Cimmerians, Persians and Chaldeans played a major role in the
overthrow of the Assyrian empire and establishment of the first Persian empire.[21]
The term Achaemenid means "of the family of the Achaemenis/Achaemenes" (Old Persian: 𐏃𐎧𐎠𐎶𐎴𐎡𐏁 Haxāmaniš;[22] a
bahuvrihi compound translating to "having a friend's mind").[23] Despite the derivation of the name, Achaemenes was
himself a minor seventh-century ruler of the Anshan in south-western Iran, and a vassal of Assyria.[19] It was not until
the time of the emperor Cyrus the Great (Cyrus II of Persia), a descendant of Achaemenes, that the Achaemenid Empire
developed the prestige of an empire and set out to incorporate the existing empires of the ancient east, becoming the
vast Persian Empire of ancient legend.[24]
At some point in 550 BC, Cyrus rose in rebellion against the Medes (most likely due to their mismanagement of
Persis), eventually conquering the Medes and creating the first Persian empire. Cyrus the Great utilized his tactical
genius,[25] as well as his understanding of the socio-political conditions governing his territories, to eventually
incorporate into the Empire neighbouring Lydia and the Neo-Babylonian Empire, also leading the way for his
successor, Cambyses II, to venture into Egypt and defeat the Twenty-sixth Dynasty of Egypt.
Cyrus the Great's political acumen was reflected in his management of his newly formed empire, as the Persian Empire
became the first to attempt to govern many different ethnic groups on the principle of equal responsibilities and rights
for all people, so long as subjects paid their taxes and kept the peace.[26] Additionally, the king agreed not to interfere
with the local customs, religions, and trades of its subject states,[26] a unique quality that eventually won Cyrus the
support of the Babylonians. This system of management ultimately became an issue for the Persians, as with a larger
empire came the need for order and control, leading to expenditure of resources and mobilization of troops to quell
local rebellions, and weakening the central power of the king. By the time of Darius III, this disorganization had almost
led to a disunited realm.[14]
The Persians from whom Cyrus hailed were originally nomadic pastoralists in the western Iranian Plateau and by 850
BC were calling themselves the Parsa and their constantly shifting territory Parsua, for the most part localized around
Persis.[14] As Persians gained power, they developed the infrastructure to support their growing influence, including
creation of a capital named Pasargadae and an opulent city named Persepolis.
Begun during the rule of Darius I "the Great" and completed some 100 years later, Persepolis was a symbol of the
empire serving both as a ceremonial centre and a centre of government.[27] It had a special set of gradually progressive
stairways named "All Countries" around which carved relief decoration depicted scenes of heroism, hunting, natural
themes, and presentation of the gifts to the Achaemenid kings by their various subjects, possibly during the spring
festival, Nowruz. The core structure was composed of a multitude of square rooms or halls, the biggest of which was
called Apadana.[27] Tall, decorated columns welcomed visitors and emphasized the height of the structure. Later on,
Darius also utilized Susa and Ecbatana as his governmental centres, developing them to a similar metropolitan status.
Accounts of the Achaemenid family tree can be derived from either documented Greek or Roman accounts, or from
existing documented Persian accounts such as those found in the Behistun Inscription. However, since most existing
accounts of this vast empire are in works of Greek philosophers and historians, and since many of the original Persian
documents are lost, not to mention being subject to varying scholarly views on their origin and possible motivations
behind them, it is difficult to create a definitive and completely objective list. Nonetheless, it is clear that Cyrus and
Darius were critical in the expansion of the empire. Cyrus is often believed to be the son of Cambyses I, grandson of
Reliefs of gift-bearing delegations in Apadana
staircase of Persepolis; the ones depicted here
are Arian(?) (upper) and Babylonian (lower)
delegations.
The tomb of Cyrus the Great, founder of
the Achaemenid Empire
The Gate of All Nations, Persepolis
Cyrus I, the father of Cambyses II, and a relative of Darius through
a shared ancestor, Teispes. Cyrus the Great is also believed to have
been a family member (possibly grandson) of the Median king
Astyages through his mother, Mandane of Media. A minority of
scholars argue that perhaps Achaemenes was a retrograde creation
of Darius in order to reconcile his connection with Cyrus after
gaining power.[19]
Ancient Greek writers provide some legendary information about
Achaemenes by calling his tribe the Pasargadae and stating that he
was "raised by an eagle". Plato, when writing about the Persians,
identified Achaemenes with Perses, ancestor of the Persians in
Greek mythology.[28] According to Plato, Achaemenes was the
same person as Perses, a son of the Ethiopian queen Andromeda
and the Greek hero Perseus, and a grandson of Zeus. Later writers
believed that Achaemenes and Perseus were different people, and
that Perses was an ancestor of the king.[29] This account further confirms that Achaemenes could well have been a
significant Anshan leader and an ancestor of Cyrus the Great. Regardless, both Cyrus the Great and Darius the Great
were related, prominent kings of Persia, under whose rule the empire expanded to include much of the ancient world.
The empire took its unified form with a central administration around
Pasargadae erected by Cyrus the Great. The empire ended up conquering
and enlarging the Median Empire to include many more territories, for
example in Europe, the Caucasus, Asia Minor, Egypt, and Central Asia.
During the reigns of Darius I and his son Xerxes I it engaged in military
conflict with some of the major city-states of Ancient Greece, and although
it came close to defeating the Greek army, this war ultimately led to the
empire's overthrow.[30]
In 559 BC, Cambyses I the Elder was succeeded as the king of Anšān by
his son Cyrus the Great, who also succeeded the still-living Arsames as the
King of Persia, thus reuniting the two realms. Cyrus is considered to be the
first true king of the Persian Empire, as his predecessors were subservient
to the Medes. Cyrus the Great conquered Media, Lydia, and Babylon.
Cyrus was politically shrewd, modelling himself as the "saviour" of
conquered nations, often allowing displaced people to return, and giving his
subjects freedom to practice local customs. To reinforce this image, he
instituted policies of religious freedom, and restored temples and other
infrastructure in the newly acquired cities (Most notably the Jewish
inhabitants of Babylon, as recorded in the Cyrus Cylinder and the Tanakh).
As a result of his tolerant policies he came to be known by those of the
Jewish faith as "the anointed of the Lord."[31][32]
His immediate successors were less successful. Cyrus' son Cambyses II
conquered Egypt in 525 BC, but died in July 522 BC during a revolt led by a sacerdotal clan that had lost its power
following Cyrus' conquest of Media. The cause of his death remains uncertain, although it may have been the result of
an accident.[33]
Formation and expansion
A replica of a Persian column from
Persepolis currently located in Kholde
Barin Park, in Shiraz
Map of the expansion process of Achaemenid territories
Cyrus the Great is said in the
Bible to have liberated the
Hebrew captives in Babylon to
resettle and rebuild Jerusalem,
earning him an honored place in
Judaism.
According to Herodotus, Cambyses II had originally ventured into Egypt to
take revenge for the pharaoh Amasis's trickery when he sent a fake
Egyptian bride whose family Amasis had murdered,[34] instead of his own
daughter, to wed Cambyses II. Additionally negative reports of
mistreatment caused by Amasis, given by Phanes of Halicarnassus, a wise
counsellor serving Amasis, further bolstered Cambyses's resolve to venture
into Egypt. Amasis died before Cambyses II could face him, but his
successor Psamtik III was defeated by Cambyses II in the Battle of Pelusium.
While Cambyses II was in Egypt, the Zoroastrian priests, whom Herodotus called
Magi, usurped the throne for one of their own, Gaumata, who then pretended to be
Cambyses 
II's 
younger 
brother 
Bardiya 
(Greek: 
Smerdis 
or
Tanaoxares/Tanyoxarkes[33]), who had been assassinated some three years earlier.
Owing to the strict rule of Cambyses II, especially his stance on taxation,[35] and
his long absence in Egypt, "the whole people, Perses, Medes and all the other
nations," acknowledged the usurper, especially as he granted a remission of taxes
for three years.[36] Cambyses II himself would not be able to quell the imposters, as
he died on the way back from Egypt.
The claim that Gaumata had impersonated Bardiya (Smerdis), is derived from
Darius the Great and the records at the Behistun Inscription. Historians are divided
over the possibility that the story of the impostor was invented by Darius as
justification for his coup.[37] Darius made a similar claim when he later captured
Babylon, announcing that the Babylonian king was not, in fact, Nebuchadnezzar
III, but an impostor named Nidintu-bel.[38]
According to the Behistun Inscription, Gaumata ruled for seven months before being overthrown in 522 BC by Darius
the Great (Darius I) (Old Persian Dāryavuš, "who holds firm the good", also known as Darayarahush or Darius the
Great). The Magi, though persecuted, continued to exist, and a year following the death of the first pseudo-Smerdis
(Gaumata), saw a second pseudo-Smerdis (named Vahyazdāta) attempt a coup. The coup, though initially successful,
failed.[39]
Herodotus writes[40] that the native leadership debated the best form of government for the empire. It was agreed that
an oligarchy would divide them against one another, and democracy would bring about mob rule resulting in a
charismatic leader resuming the monarchy. Therefore, they decided a new monarch was in order, particularly since they
The Persian queen Atossa,
Daughter of Cyrus the
Great, sister-wife of
Cambyses II, Darius the
Great's wife, and mother of
Xerxes I
were in a position to choose him. Darius I was chosen monarch from among the leaders. He was cousin to Cambyses II
and Bardiya (Smerdis), claiming Ariaramnes as his ancestor.
The Achaemenids thereafter consolidated areas firmly under their control. It was Cyrus the Great and Darius the Great
who, by sound and far-sighted administrative planning, brilliant military manoeuvring, and a humanistic world view,
established the greatness of the Achaemenids and, in less than thirty years, raised them from an obscure tribe to a world
power. It was during the reign of Darius the Great (Darius I) that Persepolis was built (518–516 BC) and which would
serve as capital for several generations of Achaemenid kings. Ecbatana (Hagmatāna "City of Gatherings", modern:
Hamadan) in Media was greatly expanded during this period and served as the summer capital.
Ever since the Macedonian king Amyntas I surrendered his country to the Persians in about 512–511, Macedonians and
Persians were strangers no more as well. Subjugation of Macedonia was part of Persian military operations initiated by
Darius the Great (521–486) in 513 – after immense preparations – a huge Achaemenid army invaded the Balkans and
tried to defeat the European Scythians roaming to the north of the Danube river.[41] Darius' army subjugated several
Thracian peoples, and virtually all other regions that touch the European part of the Black Sea, such as parts of
nowadays Bulgaria, Romania, Ukraine, and Russia, before it returned to Asia Minor.[41][42] Darius left in Europe one of
his commanders named Megabazus whose task was to accomplish conquests in the Balkans.[41] The Persian troops
subjugated gold-rich Thrace, the coastal Greek cities, as well as defeating and conquering the powerful
Paeonians.[41][43][44] Finally, Megabazus sent envoys to Amyntas, demanding acceptance of Persian domination, which
the Macedonians did. The Balkans provided many soldiers for the multi-ethnic Achaemenid army. Many of the
Macedonian and Persian elite intermarried, such as the Persian official Bubares who married Amyntas' daughter,
Gygaea. Family ties the Macedonian rulers Amyntas and Alexander enjoyed with Bubares ensured them good relations
with the Persian kings Darius and Xerxes I. The Persian invasion led indirectly to Macedonia's rise in power and Persia
had some common interests in the Balkans; with Persian aid, the Macedonians stood to gain much at the expense of
some Balkan tribes such as the Paeonians and Greeks. All in all, the Macedonians were "willing and useful Persian
allies. Macedonian soldiers fought against Athens and Sparta in Xerxes' army.[41] The Persians referred to both Greeks
and Macedonians as Yauna ("Ionians", their term for "Greeks"), and to Macedonians specifically as Yaunã Takabara or
"Greeks with hats that look like shields", possibly referring to the Macedonian kausia hat.[45]
By the 5th century BC the Kings of Persia were either ruling over or had subordinated
territories encompassing not just all of the Persian Plateau and all of the territories
formerly held by the Assyrian Empire (Mesopotamia, the Levant, Cyprus and Egypt),
but beyond this all of Anatolia and Armenia, as well as the Southern Caucasus and parts
of the North Caucasus, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, all of Bulgaria, Paeonia,
Thrace and Macedonia to the north and west, most of the Black Sea coastal regions,
parts of Central Asia as far as the Aral Sea, the Oxus and Jaxartes to the north and north-
east, the Hindu Kush and the western Indus basin (corresponding to modern
Afghanistan and Pakistan) to the far east, parts of northern Arabia to the south, and parts
of northern Libya to the south-west, and parts of Oman, China, and the
UAE.[46][47][48][49][50][51]
The Ionian Revolt in 499 BC, and associated revolts in Aeolis, Doris, Cyprus and Caria,
were military rebellions by several regions of Asia Minor against Persian rule, lasting
from 499 to 493 BC. At the heart of the rebellion was the dissatisfaction of the Greek
cities of Asia Minor with the tyrants appointed by Persia to rule them, along with the individual actions of two Milesian
tyrants, Histiaeus and Aristagoras. In 499 BC, the then tyrant of Miletus, Aristagoras, launched a joint expedition with
Greco-Persian Wars
Greek hoplite and Persian warrior
depicted fighting, on an ancient
kylix, 5th century BC
Map showing events of the first phases of the
Greco-Persian Wars
the Persian satrap Artaphernes to conquer Naxos, in an attempt to bolster his
position in Miletus (both financially and in terms of prestige). The mission was
a debacle, and sensing his imminent removal as tyrant, Aristagoras chose to
incite the whole of Ionia into rebellion against the Persian king Darius the Great.
The Persians continued to reduce the cities along the west coast that still held
out against them, before finally imposing a peace settlement in 493 BC on Ionia
that was generally considered to be both just and fair. The Ionian Revolt
constituted the first major conflict between Greece and the Achaemenid Empire,
and as such represents the first phase of the Greco-Persian Wars. Asia Minor had
been brought back into the Persian fold, but Darius had vowed to punish Athens
and Eretria for their support of the revolt.[52] Moreover, seeing that the political
situation in Greece posed a continued threat to the stability of his Empire, he
decided to embark on the conquest of all of Greece. The first campaign of the
invasion was to bring the territories in the Balkan peninsula back within the
empire.[53] The Persian grip over these territories had loosened following the
Ionian Revolt. In 492 BC, the Persian general Mardonius re-subjugated Thrace and made Macedon a fully subordinate
part of the empire; it had been a vassal as early as the late 6th century BC, but retained a great deal of autonomy.[53]
However, in 490 BC the Persian forces were defeated by the Athenians at the Battle of Marathon and Darius would die
before having the chance to launch an invasion of Greece.
Xerxes I (485–465 BC, Old Persian Xšayārša "Hero Among
Kings"), son of Darius I, vowed to complete the job. He organized a
massive invasion aiming to conquer Greece. His army entered
Greece from the north, meeting little or no resistance through
Macedonia and Thessaly, but was delayed by a small Greek force
for three days at Thermopylae. A simultaneous naval battle at
Artemisium was tactically indecisive as large storms destroyed
ships from both sides. The battle was stopped prematurely when the
Greeks received news of the defeat at Thermopylae and retreated.
The battle was a strategic victory for the Persians, giving them
uncontested control of Artemisium and the Aegean Sea.
Following his victory at the Battle of Thermopylae, Xerxes sacked
the evacuated city of Athens and prepared to meet the Greeks at the
strategic Isthmus of Corinth and the Saronic Gulf. In 480 BC the
Greeks won a decisive victory over the Persian fleet at the Battle of
Salamis and forced Xerxes to retire to Sardis. The land army which he left in Greece under Mardonius retook Athens
but was eventually destroyed in 479 BC at the Battle of Plataea. The final defeat of the Persians at Mycale encouraged
the Greek cities of Asia to revolt, and the Persians lost all of their territories in Europe; Macedonia once again became
independent.[41]
After Xerxes I was assassinated, he was succeeded by his eldest son Artaxerxes I. It was during his reign that Elamite
ceased to be the language of government, and Aramaic gained in importance. It was probably during this reign that the
solar calendar was introduced as the national calendar. Under Artaxerxes I, Zoroastrianism became the de facto religion
of state.
Cultural phase
Achaemenid gold ornaments,
Brooklyn Museum
After Persia had been defeated at Battle of Eurymedon (469 BC or 466 BC[54]), military action between Greece and
Persia was halted. When Artaxerxes I took power, he introduced a new Persian strategy of weakening the Athenians by
funding their enemies in Greece. This indirectly caused the Athenians to move the treasury of the Delian League from
the island of Delos to the Athenian acropolis. This funding practice inevitably prompted renewed fighting in 450 BC,
where the Greeks attacked at the Battle of Cyprus. After Cimon's failure to attain much in this expedition, the Peace of
Callias was agreed between Athens, Argos and Persia in 449 BC.
Artaxerxes I offered asylum to Themistocles, who was the winner of the Battle of Salamis, after Themistocles was
ostracized from Athens. Also, Artaxerxes I gave him Magnesia, Myus, and Lampsacus to maintain him in bread, meat,
and wine. In addition, Artaxerxes I gave him Palaescepsis to provide him with clothes, and he also gave him Percote
with bedding for his house.[55]
When Artaxerxes died in 424 BC at Susa, his body was taken to the tomb
already built for him in the Naqsh-e Rustam Necropolis. It was Persian tradition
that kings begin constructing their own tombs while they were still alive.
Artaxerxes I was immediately succeeded by his eldest son Xerxes II, who was
the only legitimate son of Artaxerxes.[56] However, after a few days on the
throne, he was assassinated while drunk by Pharnacyas and Menostanes on the
orders of his illegitimate brother: Sogdianus who apparently had gained the
support of his regions. He reigned for six months and fifteen days before being
captured by his half-brother, Ochus, who had rebelled against him. Sogdianus
was executed by being suffocated in ash because Ochus had promised he would
not die by the sword, by poison or by hunger.[57] Ochus then took the royal
name Darius II. Darius' ability to defend his position on the throne ended the
short power vacuum.
From 412 BC Darius II, at the insistence of Tissaphernes, gave support first to Athens, then to Sparta, but in 407 BC,
Darius' son Cyrus the Younger was appointed to replace Tissaphernes and aid was given entirely to Sparta which finally
defeated Athens in 404 BC. In the same year, Darius fell ill and died in Babylon. His death gave an Egyptian rebel
named Amyrtaeus the opportunity to throw off Persian control over Egypt. At his death bed, Darius' Babylonian wife
Parysatis pleaded with him to have her second eldest son Cyrus (the Younger) crowned, but Darius refused. Queen
Parysatis favoured Cyrus more than her eldest son Artaxerxes II. Plutarch relates (probably on the authority of Ctesias)
that the displaced Tissaphernes came to the new king on his coronation day to warn him that his younger brother Cyrus
(the Younger) was preparing to assassinate him during the ceremony. Artaxerxes had Cyrus arrested and would have
had him executed if their mother Parysatis had not intervened. Cyrus was then sent back as Satrap of Lydia, where he
prepared an armed rebellion. Cyrus hired an army of Ten Thousand Greek mercenaries and made his way deeper into
Persia. The army of Cyrus was stopped by the royal Persian army of Artaxerxes II at Cunaxa in 401 BC, where Cyrus
was killed. The Ten Thousand Greek Mercenaries including Xenophon were now deep in Persian territory and were at
risk of attack. So they searched for others to offer their services to but eventually had to return to Greece.[58]
Artaxerxes II was the longest reigning of the Achaemenid kings and it was during this 45-year period of relative peace
and stability that many of the monuments of the era were constructed. Artaxerxes moved the capital back to Persepolis,
which he greatly extended. Also the summer capital at Ecbatana was lavishly extended with gilded columns and roof
tiles of silver and copper.[59] The extraordinary innovation of the Zoroastrian shrines can also be dated to his reign, and
it was probably during this period that Zoroastrianism spread from Armenia throughout Asia Minor and the Levant.
The construction of temples, though serving a religious purpose, was not a purely selfless act, as they also served as an
important source of income. From the Babylonian kings, the Achaemenids had taken over the concept of a mandatory
temple tax, a one-tenth tithe which all inhabitants paid to the temple nearest to their land or other source of income.[60]
A share of this income called the Quppu Sha Sharri, "king's chest"—an ingenious institution originally introduced by
Persian Empire timeline including important events and
territorial evolution
Nabonidus—was then turned over to the ruler. In retrospect, Artaxerxes is generally regarded as an amiable man who
lacked the moral fiber to be a really successful ruler. However, six centuries later Ardeshir I, founder of the second
Persian Empire, would consider himself Artaxerxes' successor, a grand testimony to the importance of Artaxerxes to the
Persian psyche.
Artaxerxes II became involved in a war with Persia's
erstwhile allies, the Spartans, who, under Agesilaus II,
invaded Asia Minor. In order to redirect the Spartans'
attention to Greek affairs, Artaxerxes II subsidized their
enemies: in particular the Athenians, Thebans and
Corinthians. These subsidies helped to engage the Spartans
in what would become known as the Corinthian War. In 387
BC, Artaxerxes II betrayed his allies and came to an
arrangement with Sparta, and in the Treaty of Antalcidas he
forced his erstwhile allies to come to terms. This treaty
restored control of the Greek cities of Ionia and Aeolis on
the Anatolian coast to the Persians, while giving Sparta
dominance on the Greek mainland. In 385 BC he
campaigned against the Cadusians. Although successful
against the Greeks, Artaxerxes II had more trouble with the
Egyptians, who had successfully revolted against him at the
beginning of his reign. An attempt to reconquer Egypt in
373 BC was completely unsuccessful, but in his waning years the Persians did manage to defeat a joint Egyptian–
Spartan effort to conquer Phoenicia. He quashed the Revolt of the Satraps in 372–362 BC. He is reported to have had a
number of wives. His main wife was Stateira, until she was poisoned by Artaxerxes II's mother Parysatis in about 400
BC. Another chief wife was a Greek woman of Phocaea named Aspasia (not the same as the concubine of Pericles).
Artaxerxes II is said to have had more than 115 sons from 350 wives.[61]
In 358 BC Artaxerxes II died and was succeeded by his son Artaxerxes III. In 355 BC, Artaxerxes III forced Athens to
conclude a peace which required the city's forces to leave Asia Minor and to acknowledge the independence of its
rebellious allies.[62] Artaxerxes started a campaign against the rebellious Cadusians, but he managed to appease both of
the Cadusian kings. One individual who successfully emerged from this campaign was Darius Codomannus, who later
occupied the Persian throne as Darius III.
Artaxerxes III then ordered the disbanding of all the satrapal armies of Asia Minor, as he felt that they could no longer
guarantee peace in the west and was concerned that these armies equipped the western satraps with the means to
revolt.[63] The order was however ignored by Artabazos II of Phrygia, who asked for the help of Athens in a rebellion
against the king. Athens sent assistance to Sardis. Orontes of Mysia also supported Artabazos and the combined forces
managed to defeat the forces sent by Artaxerxes III in 354 BC. However, in 353 BC, they were defeated by Artaxerxes
III's army and were disbanded. Orontes was pardoned by the king, while Artabazos fled to the safety of the court of
Philip II of Macedon. In around 351 BC, Artaxerxes embarked on a campaign to recover Egypt, which had revolted
under his father, Artaxerxes II. At the same time a rebellion had broken out in Asia Minor, which, being supported by
Thebes, threatened to become serious. Levying a vast army, Artaxerxes marched into Egypt, and engaged Nectanebo II.
After a year of fighting the Egyptian Pharaoh, Nectanebo inflicted a crushing defeat on the Persians with the support of
mercenaries led by the Greek generals Diophantus and Lamius.[64] Artaxerxes was compelled to retreat and postpone
his plans to reconquer Egypt. Soon after this defeat, there were rebellions in Phoenicia, Asia Minor and Cyprus.
Relief showing Darius I offering
lettuces to the Egyptian deity Amun-
Ra Kamutef, Temple of Hibis
In 343 BC, Artaxerxes committed responsibility for the suppression of the Cyprian rebels to Idrieus, prince of Caria,
who employed 8,000 Greek mercenaries and forty triremes, commanded by Phocion the Athenian, and Evagoras, son
of the elder Evagoras, the Cypriot monarch.[65][66] Idrieus succeeded in reducing Cyprus. Artaxerxes initiated a
counter-offensive against Sidon by commanding Belesys, satrap of Syria, and Mezseus, satrap of Cilicia, to invade the
city and to keep the Phoenicians in check. Both satraps suffered crushing defeats at the hands of Tennes, the Sidonese
king, who was aided by 40,000 Greek mercenaries sent to him by Nectanebo II and commanded by Mentor of Rhodes.
As a result, the Persian forces were driven out of Phoenicia.[66]
After this, Artaxerxes personally led an army of 330,000 men against Sidon. Artaxerxes' army comprised 300,000 foot
soldiers, 30,000 cavalry, 300 triremes, and 500 transports or provision ships. After gathering this army, he sought
assistance from the Greeks. Though refused aid by Athens and Sparta, he succeeded in obtaining a thousand Theban
heavy-armed hoplites under Lacrates, three thousand Argives under Nicostratus, and six thousand Æolians, Ionians,
and Dorians from the Greek cities of Asia Minor. This Greek support was numerically small, amounting to no more
than 10,000 men, but it formed, together with the Greek mercenaries from Egypt who went over to him afterwards, the
force on which he placed his chief reliance, and to which the ultimate success of his expedition was mainly due. The
approach of Artaxerxes sufficiently weakened the resolution of Tennes that he endeavoured to purchase his own pardon
by delivering up 100 principal citizens of Sidon into the hands of the Persian king, and then admitting Artaxerxes
within the defences of the town. Artaxerxes had the 100 citizens transfixed with javelins, and when 500 more came out
as supplicants to seek his mercy, Artaxerxes consigned them to the same fate. Sidon was then burnt to the ground,
either by Artaxerxes or by the Sidonian citizens. Forty thousand people died in the conflagration.[66] Artaxerxes sold
the ruins at a high price to speculators, who calculated on reimbursing themselves by the treasures which they hoped to
dig out from among the ashes.[67] Tennes was later put to death by Artaxerxes.[68] Artaxerxes later sent Jews who
supported the revolt to Hyrcania on the south coast of the Caspian Sea.[69][70]
The reduction of Sidon was followed closely by the invasion of Egypt. In
343 BC, Artaxerxes, in addition to his 330,000 Persians, had now a force of
14,000 Greeks furnished by the Greek cities of Asia Minor: 4,000 under
Mentor, consisting of the troops that he had brought to the aid of Tennes from
Egypt; 3,000 sent by Argos; and 1000 from Thebes. He divided these troops
into three bodies, and placed at the head of each a Persian and a Greek. The
Greek commanders were Lacrates of Thebes, Mentor of Rhodes and
Nicostratus of Argos while the Persians were led by Rhossaces, Aristazanes,
and Bagoas, the chief of the eunuchs. Nectanebo II resisted with an army of
100,000 of whom 20,000 were Greek mercenaries. Nectanebo II occupied the
Nile and its various branches with his large navy.
The character of the country, intersected by numerous canals and full of
strongly fortified towns, was in his favour and Nectanebo II might have been
expected to offer a prolonged, if not even a successful, resistance. However, he
lacked good generals, and, over-confident in his own powers of command, he
was out-manoeuvred by the Greek mercenary generals and his forces were
eventually defeated by the combined Persian armies at the Battle of Pelusium
(343 BC). After his defeat, Nectanebo hastily fled to Memphis, leaving the
fortified towns to be defended by their garrisons. These garrisons consisted of
partly Greek and partly Egyptian troops; between whom jealousies and
suspicions were easily sown by the Persian leaders. As a result, the Persians were able to rapidly reduce numerous
towns across Lower Egypt and were advancing upon Memphis when Nectanebo decided to quit the country and flee
Second conquest of Egypt
The 24 countries subject to the
Achaemenid Empire at the time of
Darius, on the Egyptian Statue of
Darius I.
southwards to Ethiopia.[66] The Persian army completely routed the Egyptians
and occupied the Lower Delta of the Nile. Following Nectanebo fleeing to
Ethiopia, all of Egypt submitted to Artaxerxes. The Jews in Egypt were sent
either to Babylon or to the south coast of the Caspian Sea, the same location that
the Jews of Phoenicia had earlier been sent.
After this victory over the Egyptians, Artaxerxes had the city walls destroyed,
started a reign of terror, and set about looting all the temples. Persia gained a
significant amount of wealth from this looting. Artaxerxes also raised high taxes
and attempted to weaken Egypt enough that it could never revolt against Persia.
For the 10 years that Persia controlled Egypt, believers in the native religion
were persecuted and sacred books were stolen.[71] Before he returned to Persia,
he appointed Pherendares as satrap of Egypt. With the wealth gained from his
reconquering Egypt, Artaxerxes was able to amply reward his mercenaries. He
then returned to his capital having successfully completed his invasion of Egypt.
After his success in Egypt, Artaxerxes returned to Persia and spent the next few
years effectively quelling insurrections in various parts of the Empire so that a
few years after his conquest of Egypt, the Persian Empire was firmly under his
control. Egypt remained a part of the Persian Empire until Alexander the Great's
conquest of Egypt.
After the conquest of Egypt, there were no more revolts or rebellions against
Artaxerxes. Mentor and Bagoas, the two generals who had most distinguished themselves in the Egyptian campaign,
were advanced to posts of the highest importance. Mentor, who was governor of the entire Asiatic seaboard, was
successful in reducing to subjection many of the chiefs who during the recent troubles had rebelled against Persian rule.
In the course of a few years Mentor and his forces were able to bring the whole Asian Mediterranean coast into
complete submission and dependence.
Bagoas went back to the Persian capital with Artaxerxes, where he took a leading role in the internal administration of
the Empire and maintained tranquillity throughout the rest of the Empire. During the last six years of the reign of
Artaxerxes III, the Persian Empire was governed by a vigorous and successful government.[66]
The Persian forces in Ionia and Lycia regained control of the Aegean and the Mediterranean Sea and took over much of
Athens' former island empire. In response, Isocrates of Athens started giving speeches calling for a 'crusade against the
barbarians' but there was not enough strength left in any of the Greek city-states to answer his call.[72]
Although there weren't any rebellions in the Persian Empire itself, the growing power and territory of Philip II of
Macedon in Macedon (against which Demosthenes was in vain warning the Athenians) attracted the attention of
Artaxerxes. In response, he ordered that Persian influence was to be used to check and constrain the rising power and
influence of the Macedonian kingdom. In 340  BC, a Persian force was dispatched to assist the Thracian prince,
Cersobleptes, to maintain his independence. Sufficient effective aid was given to the city of Perinthus that the
numerous and well-appointed army with which Philip had commenced his siege of the city was compelled to give up
the attempt.[66] By the last year of Artaxerxes' rule, Philip II already had plans in place for an invasion of the Persian
Empire, which would crown his career, but the Greeks would not unite with him.[73]
In 338 BC Artaxerxes was poisoned by Bagoas with the assistance of a physician.[74]
Fall of the empire
The Battle of Issus, between
Alexander the Great on horseback
to the left, and Darius III in the
chariot to the right, represented in a
Pompeii mosaic dated 1st century
BC – Naples National
Archaeological Museum
Alexander's first victory over Darius,
the Persian king depicted in
medieval European style in the 15th
century romance The History of
Alexander's Battles
Artaxerxes III was succeeded by Artaxerxes IV Arses, who before he could act
was also poisoned by Bagoas. Bagoas is further said to have killed not only all
Arses' children, but many of the other princes of the land. Bagoas then placed
Darius III, a nephew of Artaxerxes IV, on the throne. Darius III, previously
Satrap of Armenia, personally forced Bagoas to swallow poison. In 334 BC,
when Darius was just succeeding in subduing Egypt again, Alexander and his
battle-hardened troops invaded Asia Minor.
Alexander the Great (Alexander III of Macedon) defeated the Persian armies at
Granicus (334 BC), followed by Issus (333 BC), and lastly at Gaugamela (331
BC). Afterwards, he marched on Susa and Persepolis which surrendered in early
330 BC. From Persepolis, Alexander headed north to Pasargadae where he
visited the tomb of Cyrus, the burial of the man whom he had heard of from the
Cyropedia.
In the ensuing chaos created by Alexander's invasion of Persia, Cyrus's tomb
was broken into and most of its luxuries were looted. When Alexander reached
the tomb, he was horrified by the manner in which it had been treated, and
questioned the Magi, putting them on trial.[75][76] By some accounts,
Alexander's decision to put the Magi on trial was more an attempt to undermine
their influence and display his own power than a show of concern for Cyrus's
tomb.[77] Regardless, Alexander the Great ordered Aristobulus to improve the
tomb's condition and restore its interior, showing respect for Cyrus.[75] From
there he headed to Ecbatana, where Darius III had sought refuge.
Darius III was taken prisoner by Bessus, his Bactrian satrap and kinsman. As
Alexander approached, Bessus had his men murder Darius III and then declared
himself Darius' successor, as Artaxerxes V, before retreating into Central Asia
leaving Darius' body in the road to delay Alexander, who brought it to
Persepolis for an honourable funeral. Bessus would then create a coalition of his forces, in order to create an army to
defend against Alexander. Before Bessus could fully unite with his confederates at the eastern part of the empire,[78]
Alexander, fearing the danger of Bessus gaining control, found him, put him on trial in a Persian court under his
control, and ordered his execution in a "cruel and barbarous manner".[79]
Alexander generally kept the original Achaemenid administrative structure, leading some scholars to dub him as "the
last of the Achaemenids"[80] Upon Alexander's death in 323 BC, his empire was divided among his generals, the
Diadochi, resulting in a number of smaller states. The largest of these, which held sway over the Iranian plateau, was
Seleucid Empire, ruled by Alexander's general Seleucus I Nicator. Native Iranian rule would be restored by the
Parthians of north-eastern Iran over the course of the 2nd century BC.
Istakhr, one of the vassal kingdoms of the Parthian Empire, would be overthrown by Papak, a priest of the temple there.
Papak's son, Ardašir I, who named himself in remembrance of Artaxerxes II, would revolt against the Parthians,
eventually defeating them and establishing the Sassanid Empire or as it is known the second Persian Empire.
The Achaemenid line would be carried on through the Kingdom of Pontus, based in the Pontus region of northern Asia
Minor. This Pontic Kingdom, a state of Persian origin,[81][82][83][84] may even have been directly related to Darius the
Great and the Achaemenid dynasty.[84] It was founded by Mithridates I in 281 BC and lasted until its conquest by the
Roman Republic in 63 BC. The kingdom grew to its largest extent under Mithridates VI the Great, who conquered
Descendants in later Iranian dynasties
Winged sphinx from the
Palace of Darius the Great
at Susa, Louvre
Modern impression of Achaemenid
cylinder seal. The use of cylinder
seals appears to have been
restricted to officials of the royal
administration during this period.[95]
Colchis, Cappadocia, Bithynia, the Greek colonies of the Tauric Chersonesos and for a brief time the Roman province
of Asia. Thus, this Persian dynasty managed to survive and prosper in the Hellenistic world while the main Persian
Empire had fallen.
Both the later dynasties of the Parthians and Sasanians would on occasion claim
Achaemenid descent. Recently there has been some corroboration for the Parthian claim
to Achaemenid ancestry via the possibility of an inherited disease (neurofibromatosis)
demonstrated by the physical descriptions of rulers and from evidence of familial
disease on ancient coinage.[85]
Part of the cause of the Empire's decline had been the heavy tax burden put upon the
state, which eventually led to economic decline.[86][87] An estimate of the tribute
imposed on the subject nations was up to U.S. $180M per year. This does not include
the material goods and supplies that were supplied as taxes.[88] After the high overhead
of government – the military, the bureaucracy, whatever the satraps could safely dip into
the coffers for themselves – this money went into the royal treasury. According to
Diodorus, at Persepolis, Alexander III found some 180,000 Attic talents of silver besides
the additional treasure the Macedonians were carrying that already had been seized in
Damascus by Parmenion.[89] This amounted to U.S. $2.7B. On top of this, Darius III
had taken 8,000 talents with him on his flight to the north.[88] Alexander put this static hoard back into the economy,
and upon his death some 130,000 talents had been spent on the building of cities, dockyards, temples, and the payment
of the troops, besides the ordinary government expenses.[90] Additionally, one of the satraps, Harpalus, had made off to
Greece with some 6,000 talents, which Athens used to rebuild its economy after seizing it during the struggles with the
Corinthian League.[91] Due to the flood of money from Alexander's hoard entering Greece, however, a disruption in the
economy occurred, in agriculture, banking, rents, the great increase in mercenary soldiers that cash allowed the
wealthy, and an increase in piracy.[92]
Another factor contributing to the decline of the Empire, in the period following Xerxes, was its failure to ever mold
the many subject nations into a whole; the creation of a national identity was never attempted.[93] This lack of cohesion
eventually affected the efficiency of the military.[94]
Cyrus the Great founded the empire as a multi-state empire, governed from four
capital cities: Pasargadae, Babylon, Susa and Ecbatana. The Achaemenids
allowed a certain amount of regional autonomy in the form of the satrapy
system. A satrapy was an administrative unit, usually organized on a
geographical basis. A 'satrap' (governor) was the governor who administered the
region, a 'general' supervised military recruitment and ensured order, and a 'state
secretary' kept the official records. The general and the state secretary reported
directly to the satrap as well as the central government. At differing times, there
were between 20 and 30 satrapies.[96]
Cyrus the Great created an organized army including the Immortals unit,
consisting of 10,000 highly trained soldiers[97] Cyrus also formed an innovative
postal system throughout the empire, based on several relay stations called
Chapar Khaneh.[98]
Causes of decline
Government
Daric of Artaxerxes II
The Persian daric was the first gold coin which, along with a similar silver coin,
the siglos, introduced the bimetallic monetary standard of the Achaemenid
Persian Empire which has continued till today.[99] This was accomplished by
Darius the Great, who reinforced the empire and expanded Persepolis as a
ceremonial capital;[100] he revolutionized the economy by placing it on the
silver and gold coinage and introducing a regulated and sustainable tax system
that was precisely tailored to each satrapy, based on their supposed productivity
and their economic potential. For instance, Babylon was assessed for the highest
amount and for a startling mixture of commodities – 1000 silver talents, four
months supply of food for the army. India was clearly already fabled for its
gold; Egypt was known for the wealth of its crops; it was to be the granary of
the Persian Empire (as later of Rome's) and was required to provide 120,000
measures of grain in addition to 700 talents of silver. This was exclusively a tax
levied on subject peoples.[101] Other accomplishments of Darius' reign included
codification of the data, a universal legal system, and construction of a new capital at Persepolis.
Under the Achaemenids, the trade was extensive and there was an efficient infrastructure that facilitated the exchange
of commodities in the far reaches of the empire. Tariffs on trade were one of the empire's main sources of revenue,
along with agriculture and tribute.[101][102]
The satrapies were linked by a 2,500-kilometer highway, the most impressive stretch being the Royal Road from Susa
to Sardis, built by command of Darius I. It featured stations and caravanserais at specific intervals. The relays of
mounted couriers (the angarium) could reach the remotest of areas in fifteen days. Herodotus observes that "there is
nothing in the world that travels faster than these Persian couriers. Neither snow, nor rain, nor heat, nor gloom of night
stays these courageous couriers from the swift completion of their appointed rounds."[103] Despite the relative local
independence afforded by the satrapy system, royal inspectors, the "eyes and ears of the king", toured the empire and
reported on local conditions.
The practice of slavery in Achaemenid Persia was generally banned, although there is evidence that conquered and/or
rebellious armies were sold into captivity.[104] The kings of Achaemenid Persia, especially the founder Cyrus the Great,
occasionally declined to adopt slavery, as evidenced by the freeing of the Jews at Babylon, and the construction of
Persepolis by paid workers.
Despite its humble origins in Persis, the empire reached an enormous size under the leadership of Cyrus the Great.
Cyrus created a multi-state empire where he allowed regional rulers, called the 'satrap' to rule as his proxy over a
certain designated area of his empire called the satrapy. The basic rule of governance was based upon loyalty and
obedience of each satrapy to the central power, or the king, and compliance with tax laws.[26] Due to the ethno-cultural
diversity of the subject nations under the rule of Persia, its enormous geographic size, and the constant struggle for
power by regional competitors,[14] the creation of a professional army was necessary for both maintenance of the
peace, and also to enforce the authority of the king in cases of rebellion and foreign threat.[12][97] Cyrus managed to
create a strong land army, using it to advance in his campaigns in Babylonia, Lydia, and Asia Minor, which after his
death was used by his son Cambyses II, in Egypt against Psamtik III. Cyrus would die battling a local Iranian
insurgency in the empire, before he could have a chance to develop a naval force.[105] That task however would fall to
Military
Relief of throne-bearing soldiers in their native clothing at the tomb
of Xerxes I, demonstrating the satrapies under his rule.
Median (left) and Persian
(right) soldiers in
Persepolis.
Probable Spartan hoplite (Vix crater,
c. 500 BC),[130] and an ancient
Indian warrior of the Achaemenid
army[131][132] (tomb of Xerxes I, c.
480 BC), at the time of the Second
Persian invasion of Greece (480–
479 BC).
Darius the Great, who would officially give Persians their own royal navy to allow them to engage their enemies on
multiple seas of this vast empire, from the Black Sea and the Aegean Sea, to the Persian Gulf, Ionian Sea and the
Mediterranean Sea.
The empire's great armies were, like the empire
itself, very diverse, having:[note 1] Persians,[107]
Macedonians,[41] European Thracians, Paeonians,
Medes, Achaean Greeks, Cissians, Hyrcanians,[108]
Assyrians, Chaldeans,[109] Bactrians, Sacae,[110]
Arians, 
Parthians, 
Caucasian 
Albanians,[111]
Chorasmians, Sogdians, Gandarians, Dadicae,[112]
Caspians, Sarangae, Pactyes,[113] Utians, Mycians,
Phoenicians along with the "Syrians of Palestine"
(likely 
Judeans), 
Egyptians,[114] 
Cyprians,[115]
Cilicians, Pamphylians, Lycians, Dorians of Asia,
Carians, Ionians, Aegean islanders, Aeolians,
Greeks from Pontus, Paricanians,[116] Arabians,
Ethiopians of Africa,[117] Ethiopians of Baluchistan,[118] Libyans,[119] Paphlagonians,
Ligyes, Matieni, Mariandyni, Cappadocians,[120] Phrygians, Armenians,[121] Lydians,
Mysians,[122] Asian Thracians,[123] Lasonii, Milyae,[124] Moschi, Tibareni, Macrones,
Mossynoeci,[125] Mares, Colchians, Alarodians, Saspirians,[126] Red Sea islanders,[127]
Sagartians,[128] ancient Indians,[129] Eordi, Bottiaei, Chalcidians, Brygians, Pierians,
Perrhaebi, Enienes, Dolopes, and Magnesians.
The Achaemenid infantry consisted of three
groups: the Immortals, the Sparabara, and the
Takabara, though in the later years of the
Achaemenid 
Empire, 
the 
Cardaces, 
were
introduced.
The Immortals were described by Herodotus as
being heavy infantry, led by Hydarnes, that were
kept constantly at a strength of exactly 10,000 men. He claimed that the unit's
name stemmed from the custom that every killed, seriously wounded, or sick
member was immediately replaced with a new one, maintaining the numbers
and cohesion of the unit.[133] They had wicker shields, short spears, swords or
large daggers, bow and arrow. Underneath their robes they wore scale armour
coats. The spear counterbalances of the common soldiery were of silver; to
differentiate commanding ranks, the officers' spear butt-spikes were golden.[134]
Surviving Achaemenid coloured glazed bricks and carved reliefs represent the
Immortals as wearing elaborate robes, hoop earrings and gold jewellery, though
these garments and accessories were most likely worn only for ceremonial occasions.[135]
Military composition
Infantry
War chariot, from an Achaemenid
seal impression
The Sparabara were usually the first to engage in hand-to-hand combat with the enemy. Although not much is known
about them today, it is believed that they were the backbone of the Persian army who formed a shield wall and used
their two-metre-long spears to protect more vulnerable troops such as archers from the enemy. The Sparabara were
taken from the full members of Persian society, they were trained from childhood to be soldiers and when not called
out to fight on campaigns in distant lands they practised hunting on the vast plains of Persia. However, when all was
quiet and the Pax Persica held true, the Sparabara returned to normal life farming the land and grazing their herds.
Because of this they lacked true professional quality on the battlefield, yet they were well trained and courageous to the
point of holding the line in most situations long enough for a counter-attack. They were armoured with quilted linen
and carried large rectangular wicker shields as a form of light manoeuvrable defence. This, however, left them at a
severe disadvantage against heavily armoured opponents such as the hoplite, and his two-metre-long spear was not able
to give the Sparabara ample range to plausibly engage a trained phalanx. The wicker shields were able to effectively
stop arrows but not strong enough to protect the soldier from spears. However, the Sparabara could deal with most
other infantry, including trained units from the East.
The Takabara were a rare unit who were a tough type of peltasts.[136] They tended to fight with their own native
weapons which would have included a crescent-shaped light wickerwork shield and axes as well as light linen cloth
and leather. The Takabara were recruited from territories that incorporated modern Iran.
The armoured Persian horsemen and their death dealing chariots were
invincible. No man dared face them
— Herodotus
The Persian cavalry was crucial for conquering nations, and maintained its
importance in the Achaemenid army to the last days of the Achaemenid Empire.
The cavalry were separated into four groups. The chariot archers, horse cavalry,
the camel cavalry, and the war elephants.
In the later years of the Achaemenid Empire, the chariot archer had become
merely a ceremonial part of the Persian army, yet in the early years of the Empire, their use was widespread. The
chariot archers were armed with spears, bows, arrows, swords, and scale armour. The horses were also suited with scale
armour similar to scale armour of the Sassanian cataphracts. The chariots would contain imperial symbols and
decorations. The horses used by the Achaemenids for cavalry were often suited with scale armour, like most cavalry
units. The riders often had the same armour as Infantry units, wicker shields, short spears, swords or large daggers, bow
and arrow and scale armour coats. The camel cavalry was different, because the camels and sometimes the riders, were
provided little protection against enemies, yet when they were offered protection, they would have spears, swords, bow,
arrow, and scale armour. The camel cavalry was first introduced into the Persian army by Cyrus the Great, at the Battle
of Thymbra. The elephant was most likely introduced into the Persian army by Darius I after his conquest of the Indus
Valley. They may have been used in Greek campaigns by Darius and Xerxes I, but Greek accounts only mention 15 of
them being used at the Battle of Gaugamela.
Since its foundation by Cyrus, the Persian empire had been primarily a land empire with a strong army, but void of any
actual naval forces. By the 5th century BC, this was to change, as the empire came across Greek, and Egyptian forces,
each with their own maritime traditions and capabilities. Darius the Great (Darius I) was the first Achaemenid king to
invest in a Persian fleet.[137] Even by then no true "imperial navy" had existed either in Greece or Egypt. Persia would
Cavalry
Navy
Reconstruction of a Sasanian
cataphract, a descendant of the
Achaemenid heavy cavalry
become the first empire, under Darius, to inaugurate and deploy the first regular
imperial navy.[137] Despite this achievement, the personnel for the imperial navy
would not come from Iran, but were often Phoenicians (mostly from Sidon),
Egyptians and Greeks chosen by Darius the Great to operate the empire's
combat vessels.[137]
At first the ships were built in Sidon by the Phoenicians; the first Achaemenid
ships measured about 40 meters in length and 6 meters in width, able to
transport up to 300 Persian troops at any one trip. Soon, other states of the
empire were constructing their own ships, each incorporating slight local
preferences. The ships eventually found their way to the Persian Gulf.[137]
Persian naval forces laid the foundation for a strong Persian maritime presence
in the Persian Gulf. Persians were not only stationed on islands in the Persian
Gulf, but also had ships often of 100 to 200 capacity patrolling the empire's
various rivers including the Karun, Tigris and Nile in the west, as well as the
Indus.[137]
The Achaemenid navy established bases located along the Karun, and in
Bahrain, Oman, and Yemen. The Persian fleet was not only used for peace-
keeping purposes along the Karun but also opened the door to trade with India via the Persian Gulf.[137] Darius's navy
was in many ways a world power at the time, but it would be Artaxerxes II who in the summer of 397 BC would build
a formidable navy, as part of a rearmament which would lead to his decisive victory at Knidos in 394 BC, re-
establishing Achaemenid power in Ionia. Artaxerxes II would also utilize his navy to later on quell a rebellion in
Egypt.[138]
The construction material of choice was wood, but some armoured Achaemenid ships had metallic blades on the front,
often meant to slice enemy ships using the ship's momentum. Naval ships were also equipped with hooks on the side to
grab enemy ships, or to negotiate their position. The ships were propelled by sails or manpower. The ships the Persians
created were unique. As far as maritime engagement, the ships were equipped with two mangonels that would launch
projectiles such as stones, or flammable substances.[137]
Xenophon describes his eye-witness account of a massive military bridge created by joining 37 Persian ships across the
Tigris. The Persians utilized each boat's buoyancy, in order to support a connected bridge above which supply could be
transferred.[137] Herodotus also gives many accounts of Persians utilizing ships to build bridges.[139][140]
Darius the Great, in an attempt to subdue the Scythian horsemen north of the Black Sea, crossed over at the Bosphorus,
using an enormous bridge made by connecting Achaemenid boats, then marched up to the Danube, crossing it by
means of a second boat bridge.[141] The bridge over the Bosphorus essentially connected the nearest tip of Asia to
Europe, encompassing at least some 1000 meters of open water if not more. Herodotus describes the spectacle, and
calls it the "bridge of Darius":[142]
"Strait called Bosphorus, across which the bridge of Darius had been thrown is hundred and twenty
furlongs in length, reaching from the Euxine, to the Propontis. The Propontis is five hundred furlongs
across, and fourteen hundred long. Its waters flow into the Hellespont, the length of which is four
hundred furlongs ..."
Iconic relief of lion and bull fighting,
Apadana of Persepolis
One of a pair of armlets from the
Oxus Treasure, which has lost its
inlays of precious gems or enamel
Achaemenid golden bowl with
lioness imagery
Years later, a similar boat bridge would be constructed by Xerxes the Great (Xerxes I), in his invasion of Greece.
Although the Persians failed to capture the Greek city states completely, the tradition of maritime involvement was
carried down by the Persian kings, most notably Artaxerxes II. Years later, when Alexander invaded Persia and during
his advancement into India, he took a page from the Persian art of war, by having Hephaestion and Perdiccas construct
a similar boat-bridge at the Indus river, in India in the spring of 327 BC.[143]
Herodotus, in his mid-5th century BC account of Persian residents of the
Pontus, reports that Persian youths, from their fifth year to their twentieth year,
were instructed in three things – to ride a horse, to draw a bow, and to speak the
Truth.[144]
He further notes that:[144]
the most disgraceful thing in the world [the Persians] think, is to tell
a lie; the next worst, to owe a debt: because, among other
reasons, the debtor is obliged to tell lies.
In Achaemenid Persia, the lie, druj, is considered to be a cardinal sin, and it was
punishable by death in some extreme cases. Tablets discovered by
archaeologists in the 1930s[145] at the site of Persepolis give us adequate
evidence about the love and veneration for the culture of truth during the
Achaemenian period. These tablets contain the names of ordinary Persians,
mainly traders and warehouse-keepers.[146] According to Professor Stanley
Insler of Yale University, as many as 72 names of officials and petty clerks
found on these tablets contain the word truth.[147] Thus, says Insler, we have
Artapana, protector of truth, Artakama, lover of truth, Artamanah, truth-
minded, Artafarnah, possessing splendour of truth, Artazusta, delighting in
truth, Artastuna, pillar of truth, Artafrida, prospering the truth and Artahunara,
having nobility of truth. It was Darius the Great who laid down the ordinance of
good regulations during his reign. King Darius' testimony about his constant
battle against the lie is found in cuneiform inscriptions. Carved high up in the
Behistun mountain on the road to Kermanshah, Darius the Great (Darius I)
testifies:[148]
I was not a lie-follower, I was not a doer of wrong ... According to
righteousness I conducted myself. Neither to the weak or to the
powerful did I do wrong. The man who cooperated with my house,
him I rewarded well; who so did injury, him I punished well.
Darius had his hands full dealing with large-scale rebellion which broke out
throughout the empire. After fighting successfully with nine traitors in a year,
Darius records his battles against them for posterity and tells us how it was the
lie that made them rebel against the empire. At Behistun, Darius says:
I smote them and took prisoner nine kings. One was Gaumata by
name, a Magian; he lied; thus he said: I am Smerdis, the son of
Cyrus ... One, Acina by name, an Elamite; he lied; thus he said: I am king in Elam ... One, Nidintu-Bel
by name, a Babylonian; he lied; thus he said: I am Nebuchadnezzar, the son of Nabonidus.
King Darius then tells us,
Culture
The ruins of Persepolis
A section of the Old Persian part
of the trilingual Behistun
inscription. Other versions are in
Babylonian and Elamite.
A copy of the Behistun
inscription in Aramaic on a
papyrus. Aramaic was the lingua
franca of the empire.
The Lie made them rebellious, so that these men deceived the
people.[149]
Then advice to his son Xerxes, who is to succeed him as the great king:
Thou who shalt be king hereafter, protect yourself vigorously from
the Lie; the man who shall be a lie-follower, him do thou punish
well, if thus thou shall think. May my country be secure!
During the reign of Cyrus and Darius, and as long as the seat of government was
still at Susa in Elam, the language of the chancellery was Elamite. This is primarily attested in the Persepolis
fortification and treasury tablets that reveal details of the day-to-day functioning of the empire.[146] In the grand rock-
face inscriptions of the kings, the Elamite texts are always accompanied by Akkadian (Babylonian dialect) and Old
Persian inscriptions, and it appears that in these cases, the Elamite texts are translations of the Old Persian ones. It is
then likely that although Elamite was used by the capital government in Susa, it was not a standardized language of
government everywhere in the empire. The use of Elamite is not attested after 458 BC.
Following the conquest of Mesopotamia, the Aramaic language (as used in that
territory) was adopted as a "vehicle for written communication between the
different regions of the vast empire with its different peoples and languages. The
use of a single official language, which modern scholarship has dubbed "Official
Aramaic" or "Imperial Aramaic", can be assumed to have greatly contributed to
the astonishing success of the Achaemenids in holding their far-flung empire
together for as long as they did."[150] In 1955, Richard Frye questioned the
classification of Imperial Aramaic as an "official language", noting that no
surviving edict expressly and unambiguously accorded that status to any particular
language.[151] Frye reclassifies Imperial Aramaic as the lingua franca of the
Achaemenid territories, suggesting then that the Achaemenid-era use of Aramaic
was more pervasive than generally thought. Many centuries after the fall of the
empire, Aramaic script and – as ideograms – Aramaic vocabulary would survive as
the essential characteristics of the Pahlavi writing system.[152]
Although Old Persian also appears on some seals and art objects, that language is
attested primarily in the Achaemenid inscriptions of Western Iran, suggesting then
that Old Persian was the common language of that region. However, by the reign
of Artaxerxes II, the grammar and orthography of the inscriptions was so "far from
perfect"[153] that it has been suggested that the scribes who composed those texts
had already largely forgotten the language, and had to rely on older inscriptions,
which they to a great extent reproduced verbatim.[154]
When the occasion demanded, Achaemenid administrative correspondence was
conducted in Greek, making it a widely used bureaucratic language.[4] Even
though the Achaemenids had extensive contacts with the Greeks and vice versa,
and had conquered many of the Greek-speaking areas both in Europe and Asia Minor during different periods of the
empire, the native Old Iranian sources provide no indication of Greek linguistic evidence.[4] However, there is plenty of
evidence (in addition to the accounts of Herodotus) that Greeks, apart from being deployed and employed in the core
Languages
An Achaemenid drinking vessel
Bas-relief of Farvahar at Persepolis
regions of the empire, also evidently lived and worked in the heartland of the Achaemenid Empire, namely Iran.[4] For
example, Greeks were part of the various ethnicities that constructed Darius' palace in Susa, apart from the Greek
inscriptions found nearby there, and one short Persepolis tablet written in Greek.[4]
Herodotus mentions that the Persians were invited to great birthday feasts
(Herodotus, Histories 8), which would be followed by many desserts, a treat
which they reproached the Greeks for omitting from their meals. He also
observed that the Persians drank wine in large quantities and used it even for
counsel, deliberating on important affairs when drunk, and deciding the next
day, when sober, whether to act on the decision or set it aside. Bowing to
superiors, or royalty was one of the many Persian customs adopted by
Alexander the Great.
Religious toleration has been described as a "remarkable feature" of the
Achaemenid Empire.[155] As reported in the Old Testament, king Cyrus the
Great was believed to have released the Jews from captivity in 539–530 BC, and
permitted their return to their homeland.[156] Cyrus the Great assisted in the
restoration of the sacred places of various cities.[155]
It was during the Achaemenid period that Zoroastrianism reached South-
Western Iran, where it came to be accepted by the rulers and through them
became a defining element of Persian culture. The religion was not only
accompanied by a formalization of the concepts and divinities of the traditional
Iranian pantheon but also introduced several novel ideas, including that of free
will.[157][158]
Under the patronage of the Achaemenid kings, and by the 5th century BC as the de facto religion of the state,
Zoroastrianism reached all corners of the empire. The Bible states in the Old Testament that Cyrus the Great allowed
the Jews to return to their homeland after decades of captivity by the Assyrian and Babylonian empires.
During the reign of Artaxerxes I and Darius II, Herodotus wrote "[the Persians] have no images of the gods, no temples
nor altars, and consider the use of them a sign of folly. This comes, I think, from their not believing the gods to have
the same nature with men, as the Greeks imagine."[159] He claims the Persians offer sacrifice to: "the sun and moon, to
the earth, to fire, to water, and to the winds. These are the only gods whose worship has come down to them from
ancient times. At a later period they began the worship of Urania, which they borrowed from the Arabians and
Assyrians. Mylitta is the name by which the Assyrians know this goddess, to whom the Persians referred as
Anahita."[159] (The original name here is Mithra, which has since been explained to be a confusion of Anahita with
Mithra, understandable since they were commonly worshipped together in one temple).
From the Babylonian scholar-priest Berosus, who—although writing over seventy years after the reign of Artaxerxes II
Mnemon—records that the emperor had been the first to make cult statues of divinities and have them placed in
temples in many of the major cities of the empire.[160] Berosus also substantiates Herodotus when he says the Persians
knew of no images of gods until Artaxerxes II erected those images. On the means of sacrifice, Herodotus adds "they
raise no altar, light no fire, pour no libations."[161] This sentence has been interpreted to identify a critical (but later)
accretion to Zoroastrianism. An altar with a wood-burning fire and the Yasna service at which libations are poured are
Customs
Religion
Reconstruction of the Palace of
Darius at Susa. The palace served
as a model for Persepolis.
Lion on a decorative panel from
Darius I the Great's palace, Louvre
all clearly identifiable with modern Zoroastrianism, but apparently, were practices that had not yet developed in the
mid-5th century. Boyce also assigns that development to the reign of Artaxerxes II (4th century BC), as an orthodox
response to the innovation of the shrine cults.
Herodotus also observed that "no prayer or offering can be made without a magus present"[161] but this should not be
confused with what is today understood by the term magus, that is a magupat (modern Persian: mobed), a Zoroastrian
priest. Nor does Herodotus' description of the term as one of the tribes or castes of the Medes necessarily imply that
these magi were Medians. They simply were a hereditary priesthood to be found all over Western Iran and although
(originally) not associated with any one specific religion, they were traditionally responsible for all ritual and religious
services. Although the unequivocal identification of the magus with Zoroastrianism came later (Sassanid era, 3rd–7th
century AD), it is from Herodotus' magus of the mid-5th century that Zoroastrianism was subject to doctrinal
modifications that are today considered to be revocations of the original teachings of the prophet. Also, many of the
ritual practices described in the Avesta's Vendidad (such as exposure of the dead) were already practised by the magu of
Herodotus' time.
Achaemenid architecture includes large cities, temples, palaces, and
mausoleums such as the tomb of Cyrus the Great. The quintessential feature of
Persian architecture was its eclectic nature with elements of Median, Assyrian,
and Asiatic Greek all incorporated, yet maintaining a unique Persian identity
seen in the finished products.[162]
Achaemenid art includes frieze reliefs, Metalwork such as the Oxus Treasure,
decoration of palaces, glazed brick masonry, fine craftsmanship (masonry,
carpentry, etc.), and gardening. Although the Persians took artists, with their
styles and techniques, from all corners of their empire, they produced not simply
a combination of styles, but a synthesis of a new unique Persian style.[163]
Cyrus the Great in fact had an extensive ancient Iranian heritage behind him; the
rich Achaemenid gold work, which inscriptions suggest may have been a
speciality of the Medes, was for instance in the tradition of the delicate
metalwork found in Iron Age II times at Hasanlu and still earlier at Marlik.
One of the most remarkable examples of both Achaemenid architecture and art
is the grand palace of Persepolis, and its detailed workmanship, coupled with its
grand scale. In describing the construction of his palace at Susa, Darius the
Great records that:
Yaka timber was brought from Gandara and from Carmania. The gold
was brought from Sardis and from Bactria ... the precious stone lapis-
lazuli and carnelian  ... was brought from Sogdiana. The turquoise
from Chorasmia, the silver and ebony from Egypt, the ornamentation
from Ionia, the ivory from Ethiopia and from Sindh and from
Arachosia. The stone-cutters who wrought the stone, those were
Ionians and Sardians. The goldsmiths were Medes and Egyptians. The
men who wrought the wood, those were Sardians and Egyptians. The
men who wrought the baked brick, those were Babylonians. The men
who adorned the wall, those were Medes and Egyptians.
Art and architecture
The Mausoleum at Halicarnassus,
one of the Seven wonders of the
ancient world, was built by Greek
architects for the local Persian
satrap of Caria, Mausolus (Scale
model)
Plaque with horned lion-griffins
Tomb of Artaxerxes III in Persepolis
This was imperial art on a scale the
world had not seen before. Materials and
artists were drawn from all corners of the
empire, and thus tastes, styles, and motifs
became mixed together in an eclectic art
and architecture that in itself mirrored
the Persian empire.
Many Achaemenid rulers built tombs for
themselves. The most famous, Naqsh-e
Rustam, is an ancient necropolis located
about 12  km north-west of Persepolis,
with the tombs of four of the kings of the
dynasty carved in this mountain: Darius
I, Xerxes I, Artaxerxes I and Darius II.
Other kings constructed their own tombs
elsewhere. Artaxerxes II and Artaxerxes
III preferred to carve their tombs beside
their spring capital Persepolis, the left
tomb belonging to Artaxerxes II and the
right tomb belonging to Artaxerxes III, the last Achaemenid king to have a
tomb. The tomb of the founder of the Achaemenid dynasty, Cyrus the Great,
was built in Pasargadae (now a world heritage site).
The Achaemenid Empire left a lasting impression on the heritage and cultural
identity of Asia, Europe, and the Middle East, and influenced the development
and structure of future empires. In fact, the Greeks, and later on the Romans,
adopted the best features of the Persian method of governing an empire.[164]
Georg W. F. Hegel in his work The Philosophy of History introduces the Persian Empire as the "first empire that passed
away" and its people as the "first historical people" in history. According to his account;
The Persian Empire is an empire in the modern sense – like that which existed in Germany, and the
great imperial realm under the sway of Napoleon; for we find it consisting of a number of states, which
are indeed dependent, but which have retained their own individuality, their manners, and laws. The
general enactments, binding upon all, did not infringe upon their political and social idiosyncrasies, but
even protected and maintained them; so that each of the nations that constitute the whole, had its own
form of constitution. As light illuminates everything – imparting to each object a peculiar vitality – so the
Persian Empire extends over a multitude of nations, and leaves to each one its particular character.
Some have even kings of their own; each one its distinct language, arms, way of life and customs. All
this diversity coexists harmoniously under the impartial dominion of Light ... a combination of peoples –
leaving each of them free. Thereby, a stop is put to that barbarism and ferocity with which the nations
had been wont to carry on their destructive feuds.[165]
American Orientalist Arthur Upham Pope (1881–1969) said: "The western world has a vast unpaid debt to the Persian
Civilization!"[166]
Tombs
Legacy
Will Durant, the American historian and philosopher, during one of his speeches, "Persia in the History of Civilization",
as an address before the Iran–America Society in Tehran on 21 April 1948, stated:
For thousands of years Persians have been creating beauty. Sixteen centuries before Christ there
went from these regions or near it ... You have been here a kind of watershed of civilization, pouring
your blood and thought and art and religion eastward and westward into the world ... I need not
rehearse for you again the achievements of your Achaemenid period. Then for the first time in known
history an empire almost as extensive as the United States received an orderly government, a
competence of administration, a web of swift communications, a security of movement by men and
goods on majestic roads, equalled before our time only by the zenith of Imperial Rome.[167]
There were four unattested kings who ruled as satraps to the Neo-Assyrian Empire and the Median Empire.
Name
Image
Comments
Dates
Achaemenes
First ruler of the Achaemenid kingdom
705 BC
Teispes
Son of Achaemenes
640 BC
Cyrus I
Son of Teispes
580 BC
Cambyses I
Son of Cyrus I and father of Cyrus II
550 BC
There were 13 attested kings during the 220 years of the Achaemenid Empire's existence. The reign of Artaxerxes II
was the longest, lasting 47 years
Achaemenid kings and rulers
Unattested
Attested
Name
Image
Comments
Dates
Cyrus the Great
Founder of the empire; King of the "four corners of the world"
560–530 BC
Cambyses II
King of Persia in addition to Pharaoh of Egypt
530–522 BC
Bardiya
522 BC
Darius I
King of Persia in addition to Pharaoh of Egypt
522–486 BC
Xerxes I
King of Persia in addition to Pharaoh of Egypt
486–465 BC
Artaxerxes I
King of Persia in addition to Pharaoh of Egypt
465–424 BC
Xerxes II
King of Persia in addition to Pharaoh of Egypt
424 BC (45 days)
Sogdianus
King of Persia in addition to Pharaoh of Egypt
424–423 BC
Darius II
King of Persia in addition to Pharaoh of Egypt
423–405 BC
Artaxerxes II
King of Persia
405–358 BC
Artaxerxes III
King of Persia in addition to Pharaoh of Egypt (Regained
control over Egypt after 50 years)
358–338 BC
Artaxerxes IV
King of Persia in addition to Pharaoh of Egypt
338–336 BC
Darius III
King of Persia in addition to Pharaoh of Egypt; last ruler of the
empire
336–330 BC
Kings of Persia (529–359 BC); Twenty-seventh dynasty of Egypt (525–399 BC)
King
Reign (BC)
Consort(s)
Comments
Cambyses II
529–522
son of Cyrus the Great and Cassandane. Conquered dynasty of Egypt.
Bardiya (Smerdis)
522
Phaedymia
Son of Cyrus the Great. (Imposter Gaumata acted in his place)
Darius I the Great
521–486
Atossa
Artystone
Parmys
Phratagune
son-in-law of Cyrus the Great, son of Hystaspes, grandson of Arsames
Armies defeated at Battle of Marathon in Greece.
Xerxes I the Great
485–465
Amestris
son of Darius I and Atossa
Victorious at Battle of Thermopylae
Defeated at Battle of Salamis
Artaxerxes I
Longimanus
465–424
Damaspia
Cosmartidene
Alogyne
Andia
son of Xerxes I and Amestris
Xerxes II
424
son of Artaxerxes I and Damaspia
Sogdianus
424–423
Son of Artaxerxes I and Alogyne; half-brother and rival of Xerxes II
Darius II
423–405
Parysatis
Son of Artaxerxes I and Cosmartidene; half-brother and rival of Xerxes II
Artaxerxes II
Mnemon
404–359
Stateira
son of Darius II (see also Xenophon)
Early in the reign of Artaxerxes II, in 399 BC, the Persians lost control over Egypt. They regained control 57 years
later, in 342 BC, when Artaxerxes III conquered Egypt.
Kings of Persia (358–330 BC); Thirty-first dynasty of Egypt (342–332 BC)
King
Reign (BC)
Consort(s)
Comments
Artaxerxes III
Ochus
358–338
son of Artaxerxes II and Stateira
Artaxerxes IV
Arses
338–336
son of Artaxerxes III and Atossa
Darius III
336–330
Stateira I
great-grandson of Darius II
defeated by Alexander the Great
Ruins of Throne Hall, Persepolis
 
Apadana Hall, Persian and
Median soldiers at Persepolis
 
Lateral view of tomb of Cambyses
II, Pasargadae, Iran
Plaque with horned lion-griffins.
The Metropolitan Museum of Art
Achaemenid family tree
Achaemenid Persian Lion Rhyton
History of Iran
List of kings of Persia
Timeline of the Achaemenid Empire
Gallery
See also
Wars of Cyrus the Great
1. All peoples listed (except for the Caucasian Albanians) are the ones that took part in the Second Persian
invasion of Greece.[106] The total amount of ethnicities could very well amount to much more.
1. Daryaee, edited by Touraj; A. Shapour Shahbazi (2012). The Oxford handbook of Iranian history. Oxford:
Oxford University Press. p. 131. doi:10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199732159.001.0001 (https://doi.org/10.109
3%2Foxfordhb%2F9780199732159.001.0001). ISBN 978-0-19-973215-9. "Although the Persians and
Medes shared domination and others were placed in important positions, the Achaemenids did not –
could not – provide a name for their multinational state. Nevertheless, they referred to it as Khshassa,
"the Empire"." {{cite book}}: |first1= has generic name (help)
2. Yarshater, Ehsan (1993). The Cambridge History of Iran, Volume 3. Cambridge University Press. p. 482.
ISBN 978-0-521-20092-9. "Of the four residences of the Achaemenids named by Herodotus —
Ecbatana, Pasargadae or Persepolis, Susa and Babylon — the last [situated in Iraq] was maintained as
their most important capital, the fixed winter quarters, the central office of bureaucracy, exchanged only
in the heat of summer for some cool spot in the highlands. Under the Seleucids and the Parthians the
site of the Mesopotamian capital moved slightly to the north on the Tigris — to Seleucia and Ctesiphon.
It is indeed symbolic that these new foundations were built from the bricks of ancient Babylon, just as
later Baghdad, a little further upstream, was built out of the ruins of the Sassanian double city of
Seleucia-Ctesiphon."
3. Harald Kittel; Juliane House; Brigitte Schultze; Juliane House; Brigitte Schultze (2007). Traduction:
encyclopédie internationale de la recherche sur la traduction (https://books.google.com/?id=oD0dBqGD
NscC). Walter de Gruyter. pp. 1194–5. ISBN 978-3-11-017145-7.
4. Greek and Iranian, E. Tucker, A History of Ancient Greek: From the Beginnings to Late Antiquity, ed.
Anastasios-Phoivos Christidēs, Maria Arapopoulou, Maria Chritē, (Cambridge University Press, 2001),
780.
5. Windfuhr, Gernot. "IRAN vii. NON-IRANIAN LANGUAGES (1) Overview – Encyclopaedia Iranica" (http://
www.iranicaonline.org/articles/iran-vii1-non-iranian-languages-overview-). www.iranicaonline.org.
Encyclopedia Iranica. Retrieved 8 February 2017. "Elamite as one of the official languages of the
Achaemenid court was still widely spoken in the southwest."
6. Boiy, T. (2004). Late Achaemenid and Hellenistic Babylon. Peeters Publishers. p. 101. ISBN 978-90-429-
1449-0.
7. Turchin, Peter; Adams, Jonathan M.; Hall, Thomas D (December 2006). "East-West Orientation of
Historical Empires" (http://jwsr.pitt.edu/ojs/index.php/jwsr/article/view/369/381). Journal of World-systems
Research. 12 (2): 223. ISSN 1076-156X (https://www.worldcat.org/issn/1076-156X). Retrieved
12 September 2016.
8. Taagepera, Rein (1979). "Size and Duration of Empires: Growth-Decline Curves, 600 B.C. to 600 A.D".
Social Science History. 3 (3/4): 121. doi:10.2307/1170959 (https://doi.org/10.2307%2F1170959).
JSTOR 1170959 (https://www.jstor.org/stable/1170959).
9. Morris, Ian; Scheidel, Walter (2009). The Dynamics of Ancient Empires: State Power from Assyria to
Byzantium. Oxford University Press. p. 77. ISBN 978-0-19-975834-0.
10. Josef Wiesehöfer, Ancient Persia, (I.B. Tauris Ltd, 2007), 119.
11. Sampson, Gareth C. (2008). The Defeat of Rome: Crassus, Carrhae and the Invasion of the East. Pen &
Sword Books Limited. p. 33. ISBN 978-1-84415-676-4. "Cyrus the Great, founder of the First Persian
Empire (c. 550–330 BC)."
12. Schmitt Achaemenid dynasty (i. The clan and dynasty)
Notes
References
13. http://www.utexas.edu/cola/centers/lrc/eieol/opeol-MG-X.html Macdonell and Keith, Vedic Index. This is
based on the evidence of an Assyrian inscription of 844 BC referring to the Persians as Paršu, and the
Behistun Inscription of Darius I referring to Pārsa as the area of the Persians. Radhakumud Mookerji
(1988). Chandragupta Maurya and His Times (p. 23). Motilal Banarsidass Publ. ISBN 81-208-0405-8.
14. David Sacks; Oswyn Murray; Lisa R. Brody; Oswyn Murray; Lisa R. Brody (2005). Encyclopedia of the
ancient Greek world (https://books.google.com/?id=gsGmuQAACAAJ). Infobase Publishing. p. 256.
ISBN 978-0-8160-5722-1.
15. Ulrich Wilcken (1967). Alexander the Great (https://books.google.com/?id=WiSZM-LYsk4C). W. W.
Norton & Company. p. 146. ISBN 978-0-393-00381-9.
16. Taagepera, Rein (1979). "Size and Duration of Empires: Growth-Decline Curves, 600 B.C. to 600 A.D".
Social Science History. 3 (3/4): 123. doi:10.2307/1170959 (https://doi.org/10.2307%2F1170959).
JSTOR 1170959 (https://www.jstor.org/stable/1170959). "A superimposition of the maps of Achaemenid
and Alexander's empires shows a 90% match, except that Alexander's realm never reached the peak
size of the Achaemenid realm."
17. Margaret Christina Miller (2004). Athens and Persia in the Fifth Century BC: A Study in Cultural
Receptivity (https://books.google.com/?id=oGXMMD5rXBQC). Cambridge University Press. p. 243.
ISBN 978-0-521-60758-2.
18. Vesta Sarkhosh Curtis; Sarah Stewart (2005). Birth of the Persian Empire (https://books.google.com/?id
=a0IF9IdkdYEC&pg=PA7). I.B.Tauris. p. 7. ISBN 978-1-84511-062-8.
19. Jamie Stokes (2009). Encyclopedia of the Peoples of Africa and the Middle East, Volume 1 (https://book
s.google.com/?id=Rtr7MQEACAAJ). Infobase Publishing. pp. 2–3. ISBN 978-0-8160-7158-6.
20. Mallory, J.P. (1989), In Search of the Indo-Europeans: Language, Archaeology, and Myth, London:
Thames & Hudson.
21. Van de Mieroop, Marc (25 June 2015). A history of the ancient Near East ca. 3000-323 BC (https://www.
worldcat.org/oclc/904507201) (Third ed.). Chichester, West Sussex, UK. ISBN 9781118718179.
OCLC 904507201 (https://www.worldcat.org/oclc/904507201).
22. Curtis, Vesta Sarkhosh; Stewart, Sarah (2010). The Sasanian Era (https://books.google.com/books?id=q
PVHBAAAQBAJ&pg=PA79). I.B.Tauris. ISBN 978-0-85773-309-2. {{cite book}}: Invalid
|ref=harv (help)
23. Schlerath p. 36, no. 9. See also Iranica in the Achaemenid Period p. 17.
24. Kosmin 2014, p. 31.
25. Simon Anglim; Simon Anglim; Phyllis Jestice; Scott Rusch; John Serrati (2002). Fighting techniques of
the ancient world 3,000 BC – 500 CE: equipment, combat skills, and tactics (https://books.google.com/?i
d=HL9cPgAACAAJ). Macmillan. p. 145. ISBN 978-0-312-30932-9.
26. Palmira Johnson Brummett; Robert R. Edgar; Neil J. Hackett; Robert R. Edgar; Neil J. Hackett (2003).
Civilization past & present, Volume 1 (https://books.google.com/?id=Vz65MAm_6JMC). Longman. p. 38.
ISBN 978-0-321-09097-3.
27. Charles Gates (2003). Ancient cities: the archaeology of urban life in the Ancient Near East and Egypt,
Greece and Rome (https://books.google.com/?id=8aLb5pnm1j4C). Psychology Press. p. 186. ISBN 978-
0-415-12182-8.
28. David Sacks; Oswyn Murray; Lisa R. Brody; Oswyn Murray; Lisa R. Brody (2005). Encyclopedia of the
ancient Greek world (https://books.google.com/?id=gsGmuQAACAAJ). Infobase Publishing. pp. 256 (at
the bottom left portion). ISBN 978-0-8160-5722-1.
29. Dandamayev
30. Haydn Middleton (2 October 2002). Ancient Greek War and Weapons (https://books.google.com/?id=RN
hPuKAEva0C). Haydn Middleton. pp. 12–3. ISBN 978-1-4034-0134-2.
31. Lawrence Heyworth Mills (1906). Zarathustra, Philo, the Achaemenids and Israel (https://books.google.c
om/?id=uU8XAAAAYAAJ). Open Court. p. 467.
32. "Isaiah 45:1–7 (Passage)" (http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Isaiah+45%3A1-7&version=
NIV#en-NIV-18564). Bible gateway (New International Version). 2010. Retrieved 26 December 2010.
33. Maria Brosius (2006). The Persians: an introduction (https://books.google.com/?id=9vnCeA_Z73cC).
Taylor & Francis. pp. 13 (at the bottom of the page). ISBN 978-0-415-32089-4.
34. Herodotus – Volume 1, Book II (https://books.google.com/books?id=1uQaAAAAMAAJ&pg=PA245&dq=H
erodotus+Amasis&hl=en&ei=a0o0Tb-HMdDegQfu64niCw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&
sqi=2&ved=0CCwQ6AEwAg#v=onepage&q=Herodotus%20Amasis&f=false)
35. Augustus William Ahl (1922). Outline of Persian history based on cuneiform inscriptions (https://books.go
ogle.com/?id=OwduAAAAMAAJ). Lemcke & Buechner. p. 56.
36. Herodotus III.68
37. "Britannica Online Encyclopedia" (https://web.archive.org/web/20071015232225/http://concise.britannic
a.com/ebc/article-9068262/Smerdis). Concise.britannica.com. Archived from the original (http://concise.b
ritannica.com/ebc/article-9068262/Smerdis) on 15 October 2007. Retrieved 7 July 2010. {{cite
web}}: Unknown parameter |deadurl= ignored (|url-status= suggested) (help)
38. Jona Lendering. "Nidintu-Bêl / Nebuchadnezzar III" (https://web.archive.org/web/20100714195400/http://
www.livius.org/ne-nn/nidintu-bel/nidintubel.htm). Livius.org. Archived from the original (http://www.livius.o
rg/ne-nn/nidintu-bel/nidintubel.htm) on 14 July 2010. Retrieved 7 July 2010. {{cite web}}: Unknown
parameter |deadurl= ignored (|url-status= suggested) (help)
39. Herodotus (1897). Herodotus: the text of Canon Rawlinson's translation, with the notes abridged,
Volume 1 (https://books.google.com/?id=Xe_fAAAAMAAJ). C. Scribner's. p. 278.
40. Herodotus. The Histories Book 3.80–83.
41. Joseph Roisman,Ian WorthingtonA Companion to Ancient Macedonia (https://books.google.com/booksid
=QsJ183uUDkMC&pg=PA345&lpg=PA345&dq=Achaemenid+Persians+ruled+balkans&source=bl&ots=
K7qasgPG1K&sig=lkiajbVuNcHEbI5Lz3MnvIUBG1U&hl=nl&sa=X&ei=sb6RVP2qHoPUaqeGgZgE&ved=
0CEkQ6AEwBQ#v=onepage&q=Achaemenid%20Persians%20ruled%20balkans&f=false). pp. 342–345.
John Wiley & Sons, 7 jul. 2011 ISBN 1-4443-5163-X
42. The Oxford Classical Dictionary by Simon Hornblower and Antony Spawforth,ISBN 0-19-860641-9,"page
1515,"The Thracians were subdued by the Persians by 516"
43. "Persian influence on Greece (2)" (http://www.livius.org/ia-in/influence/influence02.html). Retrieved
17 December 2014.
44. Howe & Reames 2008, p. 239.
45. Johannes Engels, "Ch. 5: Macedonians and Greeks", In: Roisman and Worthington, "A companion to
Ancient Macedonia", p. 87. Oxford Press, 2010.
46. http://www.livius.org/maa-mam/maka/maka.html
47. Behistun Inscription
48. "DĀḠESTĀN" (http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/dagestan). Retrieved 29 December 2014.
49. Suny, Ronald Grigor (1994). The Making of the Georgian Nation (https://books.google.com/?id=riW0kKz
at2sC&pg=PA409&lpg=PA409&dq=achaemenid+empire+abkhazia#v=onepage&q=achaemenid%20emp
ire%20abkhazia&f=false). ISBN 978-0253209153. Retrieved 29 December 2014.
50. Ramirez-Faria, Carlos (2007). Concise Encyclopedia Of World History (https://books.google.com/?id=gG
KsS-9h4BYC). Atlantic Publishers & Dist. p. 6. ISBN 978-81-269-0775-5. Retrieved 7 October 2012.
51. Kuhrt, Amélie (2007). The Persian Empire: A Corpus of Sources from the Achaemenid Period (https://bo
oks.google.com/?id=S6BevAUWSGAC&pg=PA2&lpg=PA2&dq=Achaemenid+Empire+Jordan#v=onepag
e&q=Achaemenid%20Empire%20Jordan&f=false). Routledge. p. 2. ISBN 978-1-134-07634-5. Retrieved
7 October 2012.. O'Brien, Patrick (2002). Concise Atlas of World History (https://books.google.com/?id=ff
Zy5tDjaUkC). Oxford University Press. p. 43. ISBN 978-0-19-521921-0. Retrieved 7 October 2012..
Curtis, John E.; Tallis, Nigel (2005). Forgotten Empire: The World of Ancient Persia. University of
California Press. p. 47. ISBN 978-0-520-24731-4.. Facts On File, Incorporated (2009). Encyclopedia of
the Peoples of Africa and the Middle East (https://books.google.com/?id=stl97FdyRswC). Infobase
Publishing. p. 60. ISBN 978-1-4381-2676-0. Retrieved 7 October 2012.. Parker, Grant (2008). The
Making of Roman India (https://books.google.com/?id=ahMXbSFxGhUC). Cambridge University Press.
p. 13. ISBN 978-0-521-85834-2. Retrieved 7 October 2012.. Thapar, Romila (2004). Early India: From
the Origins to AD 1300 (https://books.google.com/?id=-5irrXX0apQC). University of California Press.
p. 157. ISBN 978-0-520-24225-8. Retrieved 7 October 2012.
52. Willis Mason West (1904). The ancient world from the earliest times to 800 CE (https://books.google.co
m/?id=168XAAAAIAAJ). Allyn and Bacon. p. 137. "The Athenian support was particularly troubling to
Darius since he had come to their aid during their conflict with Sparta"
53. Joseph Roisman,Ian Worthington. "A companion to Ancient Macedonia" (https://books.google.com/book
s?id=QsJ183uUDkMC&pg=PA345&lpg=PA345&dq=Achaemenid+Persians+ruled+balkans&source=bl&o
ts=K7qasgPG1K&sig=lkiajbVuNcHEbI5Lz3MnvIUBG1U&hl=nl&sa=X&ei=sb6RVP2qHoPUaqeGgZgE&v
ed=0CEkQ6AEwBQ#v=onepage&q=Achaemenid%20Persians%20ruled%20balkans&f=false) John
Wiley & Sons, 2011. ISBN 1-4443-5163-X pp 135–138, pp 343–345
54. See discussion on possible dates for the battle in the article Battle of the Eurymedon.
55. "Plutarch's Lives by Plutarch: Themistocles Themistocles, Part II" (https://web.archive.org/web/20151001
032753/http://plutarch.classicauthors.net/PlutarchsLives/PlutarchsLives3.html). 1 October 2015.
Archived from the original (http://plutarch.classicauthors.net/PlutarchsLives/PlutarchsLives3.html) on 1
October 2015. Retrieved 22 March 2018. {{cite web}}: Cite has empty unknown parameter: |dead-
url= (help)
56. Kuhrt 2013, p. 880.
57. Kitto, J (1841). Palestine: the Bible History of the holy land (https://books.google.com/books?id=wd0-AA
AAcAAJ&pg=PR98-IA43). London. p. 657.
58. Maurice Whittemore Mather (ed.), Joseph William Hewitt (ed.), Xenophon: Anabasis, Books 1–4.
University of Oklahoma Press, 1979, ISBN 978-0-8061-1347-0, p. 44 (https://books.google.com/books?i
d=dQltw0UIC2UC&pg=PA44)
59. (Polybius, 27 October 2012)
60. (Dandamaev & Lukonin, 1989:361–362)
61. "The Achaemenid Empire" (http://iranologie.com/the-history-page/the-achaemenid-empire/). Retrieved
21 June 2015.[1] (http://www.iranologie.com/history/Achaemenid/chapter%20V.html) Archived (https://we
b.archive.org/web/20080619124220/http://www.iranologie.com/history/Achaemenid/chapter%20V.html)
19 June 2008 at the Wayback Machine
62. Kjeilen, Tore. "Artaxerxes 3" (https://web.archive.org/web/20080225213722/http://lexicorient.com/e.o/arta
xerxes3.htm). Archived from the original (http://lexicorient.com/e.o/artaxerxes3.htm) on 25 February
2008. Retrieved 5 March 2008. {{cite web}}: Unknown parameter |deadurl= ignored (|url-
status= suggested) (help)
63. Sekunda, Nick; Nicholas V. Sekunda; Simon Chew (1992). The Persian Army 560–330 BC: 560–330
BC. Osprey Publishing. p. 28. ISBN 978-1-85532-250-9.
64. Miller, James M. (1986). A History of Ancient Israel and Judah. John Haralson Hayes (photographer).
Westminster John Knox Press. p. 465. ISBN 978-0-664-21262-9.
65. Newton, Sir Charles Thomas; R.P. Pullan (1862). A History of Discoveries at Halicarnassus, Cnidus &
Branchidæ. Day & son. p. 57.
66. "Artaxerxes III Ochus ( 358 BC to 338 BC )" (http://persianempire.info/ArtaxerxesIII.htm). Retrieved
2 March 2008.
67. Rawlinson, George (1889). "Phœnicia under the Persians" (https://web.archive.org/web/2006072003135
9/http://www.tomrawlinson.com/Personal/Links/RawlinsonGeorge.htm). History of Phoenicia. Longmans,
Green. Archived from the original (http://www.tomrawlinson.com/Personal/Links/RawlinsonGeorge.htm)
on 20 July 2006. Retrieved 10 March 2008. {{cite web}}: Unknown parameter |deadurl= ignored
(|url-status= suggested) (help)
68. Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Artaxerxes"  (https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/1911_Encyclop%C3%A6dia_Br
itannica/Artaxerxes). Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 2 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. p. 663.
69. "The Legend Of Gog And Magog" (https://web.archive.org/web/20080315084037/http://www.iras.ucalgar
y.ca/~volk/sylvia/GogAndMagog.htm). Archived from the original (http://www.iras.ucalgary.ca/~volk/sylvi
a/GogAndMagog.htm) on 15 March 2008. Retrieved 10 March 2008. {{cite web}}: Unknown
parameter |deadurl= ignored (|url-status= suggested) (help)
70. Bruce, Frederick Fyvie (1990). The Acts of the Apostles: The Greek Text with Introduction and
Commentary. Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing. p. 117. ISBN 978-0-8028-0966-7.
71. "Persian Period II" (https://web.archive.org/web/20080217023749/http://www.mnsu.edu/emuseum/prehis
tory/egypt/history/periods/persianii.html). Archived from the original (http://www.mnsu.edu/emuseum/pre
history/egypt/history/periods/persianii.html) on 17 February 2008. Retrieved March 6, 2008. {{cite
web}}: Unknown parameter |deadurl= ignored (|url-status= suggested) (help)
72. "Chapter V: Temporary Relief" (https://web.archive.org/web/20080619124220/http://www.iranologie.com/
history/Achaemenid/chapter%20V.html). Archived from the original (http://www.iranologie.com/history/Ac
haemenid/chapter%20V.html) on 19 June 2008. Retrieved 1 March 2008. {{cite web}}: Unknown
parameter |deadurl= ignored (|url-status= suggested) (help)
73. "Philip of Macedon Philip II of Macedon Biography" (https://web.archive.org/web/20080314165325/http://
www.historyofmacedonia.org/AncientMacedonia/PhilipofMacedon.html). Archived from the original (htt
p://historyofmacedonia.org/AncientMacedonia/PhilipofMacedon.html) on 14 March 2008. Retrieved
7 March 2008. {{cite web}}: Unknown parameter |deadurl= ignored (|url-status= suggested)
(help)
74. Briant, Pierre (2002). From Cyrus to Alexander: A history of the Persian Empire. Eienbrauns. p. 769.
ISBN 978-1-57506-120-7.
75. A compendium of classical literature: comprising choice extracts translated from Greek and Roman
writers, with biographical sketches (https://books.google.com/?id=SaU1AAAAMAAJ). Biddle. 1861.
p. 313. {{cite book}}: Cite uses deprecated parameter |authors= (help)
76. Abraham Valentine Williams Jackson (1906). Persia past and present (https://books.google.com/?id=7pd
CAAAAIAAJ). The Macmillan Company. p. 278.
77. Ralph Griffiths; George Edward Griffiths; George Edward Griffiths (1816). The Monthly review (https://bo
oks.google.com/?id=hogCAAAAYAAJ). 1816. p. 509.
78. Theodore Ayrault Dodge (1890). Alexander: a history of the origin and growth of the art of war from the
earliest times to the battle of Ipsus, B.C. 301, with a detailed account of the campaigns of the great
Macedonian (https://books.google.com/?id=0RcwAAAAYAAJ). Houghton, Mifflin & Co. p. 438.
79. William Smith (1887). A smaller history of Greece: from the earliest times to the Roman conquest (http
s://books.google.com/?id=vPQVAAAAYAAJ). Harper & Brothers. p. 196.
80. Pierre Briant; Amélie Kuhrt; Amélie Kuhrt (26 July 2010). Alexander the Great and His Empire: A Short
Introduction (https://books.google.com/?id=ziEp4kjhW9AC). Princeton University Press. pp. 183–5.
ISBN 978-0-691-14194-7.
81. The Foreign Policy of Mithridates VI Eupator, King of Pontus, by B. C. McGing, page 11
82. Children of Achilles: The Greeks in Asia Minor Since the Days of Troy, by John Freely, page 69–70
83. Strabo of Amasia: A Greek Man of Letters in Augustan Rome, by Daniela Dueck, page 3
84. http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/pontus
85. Ashrafian, Hutan. (2011). "Limb gigantism, neurofibromatosis and royal heredity in the Ancient World
2500 years ago: Achaemenids and Parthians" (http://www.jprasurg.com/article/S1748-6815(10)00521-8/
pdf%7C.). J Plast Reconstr Aesthet Surg. 64 (4): 557. doi:10.1016/j.bjps.2010.08.025 (https://doi.org/10.
1016%2Fj.bjps.2010.08.025). PMID 20832372 (https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20832372).
86. A.T. Olmstead, History of the Persian Empire, chapter XXI: "Overtaxation and Its Results", University of
Chicago Press, 1948, p. 289–301
87. The Penguin Encyclopedia of Ancient Civilizations, ed. Arthur Cotterell, Penguin Books Ltd., London,
1980, p. 154
88. Will Durant, Our Oriental Heritage, Simon and Schuster, Inc., New York, 1935, p. 363
89. Charles Robinson Jr., Ancient History, 2nd ed., MacMillan Company, New York, 1967, p. 328, 338
90. Charles Robinson Jr., Ancient History, 2nd ed., MacMillan Company, New York, 1967, p. 391, 347
91. Charles Robinson Jr., Ancient History, 2nd ed., MacMillan Company, New York, 1967, p. 351
92. Peter Levi, The Greek World, Equinox Book-Andromeda, Oxford Ltd., 1990, p. 182
93. Will Durant, Our Oriental Heritage, Simon and Schuster, Inc., New York, 1935, p. 382
94. R.L. Fox, The Search For Alexander, Little Brown and Co., Boston, 1980, p. 121–122
95. Collon, Dominique, First Impressions, Cylinder Seals in the Ancient Near East: p. 90, British Museum
Press, 1987, 2005. ISBN 0-7141-1136-8
96. Engineering an Empire – The Persians (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nSm68TxRBRo). Broadcast
of The History Channel, narrated by Peter Weller
97. Pierre Briant (2006). From Cyrus to Alexander: A History of the Persian Empire (https://books.google.co
m/?id=lxQ9W6F1oSYC). Eisenbrauns. p. 261. ISBN 978-1-57506-120-7.
98. Herodotus, Herodotus, trans. A.D. Godley, vol. 4, book 8, verse 98, pp. 96–97 (1924).
99. Michael Alram, "DARIC" (http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/daric), Encyclopaedia Iranica, December
15, 1994, last updated November 17, 2011
100. Persepolis Recreated, NEJ International Pictures; 1st edition (2005) ISBN 978-964-06-4525-3
ASIN B000J5N46S (https://www.amazon.com/dp/B000J5N46S), https://www.youtube.com/watch?
v=nCwxJsk14e4
101. "History Of Iran (Persia)" (http://www.historyworld.net/wrldhis/PlainTextHistories.asp?historyid=aa65).
Historyworld.net. Retrieved 7 January 2011.
102. "Darius I (Darius the Great), King of Persia (from 521 BC)" (http://www.1902encyclopedia.com/D/DAR/da
rius-i-the-great.html). 1902encyclopedia.com. Retrieved 7 January 2011.
103. The words are actually inscribed on the frieze of the James A. Farley Post Office Building in the borough
of Manhattan in New York City, New York. The inscription is based on: Herodotus with George
Rawlinson, trans., The History of Herodotus (New York, New York: Tandy-Thomas Co., 1909), vol. 4,
Book 8, § 98, p. 147. (https://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?id=uva.x000329532;view=1up;seq=163)
104. M. Dandamayev, "Foreign Slaves on the Estates of the Achaemenid Kings and their Nobles," in Trudy
dvadtsat' pyatogo mezhdunarodnogo kongressa vostokovedov II, Moscow, 1963, pp. 151–52
105. A history of Greece, Volume 2, By Connop Thirlwall, Longmans, 1836, p. 174
106. Herodotus VII, 59 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126;q
uery=chapter%3D%231123;layout=;loc=7.60.1)
107. Herodotus VII, 84 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.84.1)
108. Herodotus VII, 62 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.62.1)
109. Herodotus VII, 63 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.63.1)
110. Herodotus VII, 64 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.64.1)
111. Chaumont, M. L. Albania (http://www.iranica.com/newsite/articles/v1f8/v1f8a022.html) Archived (https://w
eb.archive.org/web/20070310231608/http://www.iranica.com/newsite/articles/v1f8/v1f8a022.html) 10
March 2007 at the Wayback Machine. "Encyclopædia Iranica.
112. Herodotus VII, 66 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.66.1)
113. Herodotus VII, 67 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.67.1)
114. Herodotus VII, 89 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.89.1)
115. Herodotus VII 90 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&la
yout=&loc=7.90.1)
116. Herodotus VII, 68 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.68.1)
117. Herodotus VII, 69 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.69.1)
118. Herodotus VII, 70 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.70.1)
119. Herodotus VII, 71 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.71.1)
120. Herodotus VII, 72 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.72.1)
121. Herodotus VII, 73 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.73.1)
122. Herodotus VII, 74 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.74.1)
123. Herodotus, VII, 75 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.75.1)
124. Herodotus VII, 77 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.77.1)
125. Herodotus VII, 78 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.78.1)
126. Herodotus VII, 79 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.79.1)
127. Herodotus VII, 80 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.80.1)
128. Herodotus VII, 85 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.85.1)
129. Herodotus VII, 65 (http://www.perseus.tufts.edu/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.01.0126&l
ayout=&loc=7.65.1)
130. Freeman, Charles (2014). Egypt, Greece, and Rome: Civilizations of the Ancient Mediterranean (https://
books.google.com/books?id=kXIVDAAAQBAJ&pg=PT172). Oxford University Press. p. 154.
ISBN 9780199651917.
131. Naqs-e Rostam – Encyclopaedia Iranica (http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/naqs-e-rostam).
132. Naqs-e Rostam – Encyclopaedia Iranica List of nationalities of the Achaemenid military with
corresponding drawings (http://www.iranicaonline.org/uploads/files/Clothing/v5f7a014_f1_300.jpg).
133. Jona Lendering. "The Persian Immortals" (http://www.livius.org/ia-in/immortals/immortals.html). Ancient
Persia. Retrieved 6 September 2009.
134. [2] (http://www.livius.org/ia-in/immortals/immortals.html). Retrieved 16 May 2009.
135. Volume IX, Encyclopædia Britannica, Fifteenth Edition 1983
136. Nicholas Sekunda, The Persian Army 560–330 BC, page 30, 1992, Osprey Publishing. ISBN 978-1-
85532-250-9
137. Kaveh Farrokh (2007). Shadows in the desert: ancient Persia at war (https://books.google.com/?id=p7klt
wf9yrwC). Osprey Publishing. p. 68. ISBN 978-1-84603-108-3.
138. Elspeth R. M. Dusinberre (2002). Aspects of empire in Achaemenid Sardis (https://books.google.com/?id
=uWkzTBHB6ekC). Cambridge University Press. p. 42. ISBN 978-0-521-81071-5.
139. Ehsan Yar-Shater (1982). Encyclopaedia Iranica, Volume 4, Issues 5–8. Routledge & Kegan Paul.
140. John Manuel Cook (1983). The Persian Empire (http://www.google.com/search?q=Achaemenid+boat+bri
dge&tbs=bks%3A1&tbo=1#sclient=psy&hl=en&safe=off&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=Achaemenid+boat+bridge
+Bosphorus&aq=f&aqi=&aql=&oq=&pbx=1&fp=f0ddf7f432501006). Schocken Books.
141. E. V. Cernenko; Angus McBride; M. V. Gorelik (24 March 1983). The Scythians, 700–300 BC (https://boo
ks.google.com/?id=ozA8d9AFiMgC). Osprey Publishing. ISBN 978-0-85045-478-9.
142. The History of Herodotus: a new English version, Volume 3 (https://books.google.com/?id=UYkOAAAAQ
AAJ). John Murray. 1859. pp. 77 (Chp. 86). {{cite book}}: Cite uses deprecated parameter
|authors= (help)
143. Waldemar Heckel (2006). Who's who in the age of Alexander the Great: prosopography of Alexander's
empire (https://books.google.com/?id=JJ4K1wFZkrsC). Wiley-Blackwell. p. 134. ISBN 978-1-4051-1210-
9.
144. Herodotus (2009) [publication date]. The Histories (https://books.google.com/?id=YTCrx1KB3HQC).
Translated by George Rawlinson. Digireads.Com. pp. 43–44. ISBN 978-1-4209-3305-5.
145. Garrison, Mark B.; Root, Margaret C. (2001). Seals on the Persepolis Fortification Tablets, Volume 1.
Images of Heroic Encounter (OIP 117) (https://web.archive.org/web/20070105203909/http://oi.uchicago.
edu/OI/DEPT/PUB/SRC/OIP/117/OIP117.html). Chicago: Online Oriental Institute Publications. Archived
from the original (http://oi.uchicago.edu/OI/DEPT/PUB/SRC/OIP/117/OIP117.html) on 5 January 2007.
Retrieved 9 January 2007. {{cite book}}: Unknown parameter |deadurl= ignored (|url-
status= suggested) (help)
146. Dandamayev, Muhammad (2002). "Persepolis Elamite Tablets" (http://www.iranica.com/articles/persepoli
s-elamite-tablets). Encyclopedia Iranica. Retrieved 1 November 2013.
147. Insler, Stanley (1975). "The Love of Truth in Ancient Iran" (https://web.archive.org/web/20070505064033/
http://www.vohuman.org/Article/The%20Love%20of%20Truth%20in%20Ancient%20Iran.htm). Archived
from the original (http://www.vohuman.org/Article/The%20Love%20of%20Truth%20in%20Ancient%20Ira
n.htm) on 5 May 2007. Retrieved 9 January 2007. {{cite web}}: Unknown parameter |dead-url=
ignored (|url-status= suggested) (help) In Insler, Stanley; Duchesne-Guillemin, J., eds. (1975). The
Gāthās of Zarathustra (Acta Iranica 8). Liege: Brill.
148. Brian Carr; Brian Carr; Indira Mahalingam (1997). Companino Encyclopedia of Asian philosophy (https://
books.google.com/?id=osxPipnXeN0C). Taylor & Francis. ISBN 978-0-415-03535-4.
149. "Darius, Behishtan (DB), Column 1" (http://www.avesta.org/op/op.htm#db1). From Kent, Roland G.
(1953). Old Persian: Grammar, texts, lexicon. New Haven: American Oriental Society.
150. Shaked, Saul (1987). "Aramaic". Encyclopedia Iranica. Vol. 2. New York: Routledge & Kegan Paul.
pp. 250–261. p. 251
151. Frye, Richard N.; Driver, G. R. (1955). "Review of G. R. Driver's "Aramaic Documents of the Fifth
Century B.C." ". Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies. 18 (3/4): 456–461. doi:10.2307/2718444 (https://doi.
org/10.2307%2F2718444). JSTOR 2718444 (https://www.jstor.org/stable/2718444). p. 457.
152. Geiger, Wilhelm; Ernst Kuhn (2002). Grundriss der iranischen Philologie: Band I. Abteilung 1. Boston:
Adamant. pp. 249ff.
153. Ware, James R.; Kent, Roland G. (1924). "The Old Persian Cuneiform Inscriptions of Artaxerxes II and
Artaxerxes III". Transactions and Proceedings of the American Philological Association. 55: 52–61.
doi:10.2307/283007 (https://doi.org/10.2307%2F283007). JSTOR 283007 (https://www.jstor.org/stable/2
83007). p. 53
154. Gershevitch, Ilya (1964). "Zoroaster's own contribution". Journal of Near Eastern Studies. 23 (1): 12–38.
doi:10.1086/371754 (https://doi.org/10.1086%2F371754). p. 20.
155. Fisher, William Bayne; Gershevitch, I. (1968). The Cambridge History of Iran (https://books.google.com/b
ooks?id=BBbyr932QdYC&lpg=PA412). Cambridge University Press. p. 412. ISBN 9780521200912.
156. "Book of Ezra | King James Bible" (https://web.archive.org/web/20110510013551/http://www.kingjamesbi
bletrust.org/the-king-james-bible/ezra). Kingjamesbibletrust.org. Archived from the original (http://www.ki
ngjamesbibletrust.org/the-king-james-bible/ezra) on 10 May 2011. Retrieved 21 March 2011. {{cite
web}}: Unknown parameter |deadurl= ignored (|url-status= suggested) (help)
157. A. V. Williams Jackson (2003). Zoroastrian Studies: The Iranian Religion and Various Monographs
(1928) (https://books.google.com/?id=GFa3HZZc87AC). Kessinger Publishing. p. 224. ISBN 978-0-
7661-6655-4.
158. Virginia Schomp (2009). The Ancient Persians (https://books.google.com/?id=U21j7vDhCCIC). Marshall
Cavendish. p. 24. ISBN 978-0-7614-4218-9.
159. Herodotus, I.131
160. Berosus, III.65
161. Herodotus, I.132
162. Charles Henry Caffin (1917). How to study architecture (https://books.google.com/?id=HnoWAAAAYAA
J). Dodd, Mead and Company. p. 80.
163. Edward Lipiński; Karel van Lerberghe; Antoon Schoors; Karel Van Lerberghe; Antoon Schoors (1995).
Immigration and emigration within the ancient Near East (https://books.google.com/?id=thIxCmwfNoM
C). Peeters Publishers. p. 119. ISBN 978-90-6831-727-5.
164. "Mastering World History" by Philip L. Groisser, New York, 1970, p. 17
165. George W. F. Hegel (1 June 2007). The Philosophy of History (https://books.google.com/?id=GbxWvCC
UdD8C&dq=inauthor:%22Georg+W.+F.+Hegel%22). ISBN 978-1-60206-438-6.
166. "The History of the Persian Civilization" by Arthur Pope, P. 11
167. Durant, Will. "Persia in the History of Civilization" (https://web.archive.org/web/20110723072146/http://w
ww.mazdapublisher.com/Documents/Persian%20Civilization.pdf) (PDF). Addressing 'Iran-America
Society. Mazda Publishers, Inc. Archived from the original (http://www.mazdapublisher.com/Documents/
Persian%20Civilization.pdf) (PDF) on 23 July 2011. {{cite web}}: Unknown parameter |deadurl=
ignored (|url-status= suggested) (help)
Briant, Pierre. "Alexander" (https://web.archive.org/web/20080517062736/http://www.iranica.com/newsit
e/articles/unicode/v1f8/v1f8a031.html). Encyclopaedia Iranica. Vol. vol. 3. Routledge & Kegan Paul.
Archived from the original (http://www.iranica.com/newsite/articles/unicode/v1f8/v1f8a031.html) on 17
May 2008. {{cite encyclopedia}}: |volume= has extra text (help); Unknown parameter
|deadurl= ignored (|url-status= suggested) (help)
Kosmin, Paul J. (2014), The Land of the Elephant Kings: Space, Territory, and Ideology in Seleucid
Empire (https://books.google.com/books?id=9UWdAwAAQBAJ), Harvard University Press, ISBN 978-0-
674-72882-0
Kuhrt, Amélie (2013). The Persian Empire: A Corpus of Sources from the Achaemenid Period (https://bo
oks.google.com/?id=bb7eH1LHRcAC&dq=artaxerxes+succeeded+by+Xerxes+II). Routledge. ISBN 978-
1-136-01694-3. {{cite book}}: Invalid |ref=harv (help)
Howe, Timothy; Reames, Jeanne (2008). Macedonian Legacies: Studies in Ancient Macedonian History
and Culture in Honor of Eugene N. Borza (https://books.google.com/?id=uuwTAQAAMAAJ&q=persians+
conquered+paeonia&dq=persians+conquered+paeonia). Regina Books. ISBN 978-1-930053-56-4.
{{cite book}}: Invalid |ref=harv (help)
A. Sh. Shahbazi. ARIARAMNEIA (http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/ariaramneia-a-city-in-cappadocia-
mentioned-in-an-inscription). Vol. vol. 2. Encyclopaedia Iranica (Routledge & Kegan Paul). {{cite
encyclopedia}}: |volume= has extra text (help)
Schmitt, Rüdiger. "Achaemenid dynasty" (https://web.archive.org/web/20090317005252/http://www.iranic
a.com/newsite/articles/unicode/v1f4/v1f4a109.html). Encyclopaedia Iranica. Vol. vol. 3. Routledge &
Kegan Paul. Archived from the original (http://www.iranica.com/newsite/articles/unicode/v1f4/v1f4a109.ht
ml) on 17 March 2009. {{cite encyclopedia}}: |volume= has extra text (help); Unknown
parameter |deadurl= ignored (|url-status= suggested) (help)
Schlerath, Bernfried (1973). Die Indogermanen. Inst. f. Vergl. Sprachwiss. ISBN 978-3-85124-516-5.
Tavernier, Jan (2007). Iranica in the Achaemenid Period (ca. 550-330 B.C.): Linguistic Study of Old
Iranian Proper Names and Loanwords, Attested in Non-Iranian Texts. Peeters Publishers. ISBN 978-90-
Sources
429-1833-7.
Stronach, David "Darius at Pasargadae: A Neglected Source for the History of Early Persia," Topoi
Stronach, David "Anshan and Parsa: Early Achaemenid History, Art and Architecture on the Iranian
Plateau". In: John Curtis, ed., Mesopotamia and Iran in the Persian Period: Conquest and Imperialism
539–331, 35–53. London: British Museum Press 1997.
Wiesehöfer, Josef. "History in pre-Islamic period" (http://www.iranica.com/newsite/index.isc?Article=htt
p://www.iranica.com/newsite/articles/v9f3/v9f393a.html). Encyclopaedia Iranica.
Wiesehöfer, Josef (2001). Ancient Persia. Translated by Azizeh Azodi. London, New York: I.B. Tauris.
ISBN 978-1-86064-675-1. There have been a number of editions since 1996.
Curtis, John E.; Tallis, Nigel (2005). Forgotten Empire: The World of Ancient Persia. Berkeley and Los
Angeles: University of California Press. ISBN 978-0-520-24731-4. A collection of articles by different
authors.
Pierre Briant (January 2002). From Cyrus to Alexander: a history of the Persian Empire. ISBN 978-1-
57506-031-6.
The Greco-Persian Wars, Peter Green
Philip Souza (25 January 2003). The Greek and Persian Wars 499–386 BC. Osprey Publishing.
ISBN 978-1-84176-358-3.
The Heritage of Persia, Richard N. Frye
History of the Persian Empire, A.T. Olmstead
The Persian Empire, Lindsay Allen
The Persian Empire, J.M. Cook
Persian Fire: The First World Empire and the Battle for the West, Tom Holland
Pictorial History of Iran: Ancient Persia Before Islam 15000 B.C.–625 A.D., Amini Sam
Timelife Persians: Masters of the Empire (Lost Civilizations)
M. A. Dandamaev (1989). A Political History of the Achaemenid Empire. Brill Academic Pub. ISBN 978-
90-04-09172-6.
Hallock, R., Persepolis Fortification Tablets (https://web.archive.org/web/20070621133316/http://oi.uchic
ago.edu/pdf/OIP92.pdf)
Chopra, R.M., an article on "A Brief Review of Pre-Islamic Splendour of Iran", INDO-IRANICA, Vol.56 (1–
4), 2003.
Sideris, A. "Achaemenid Toreutics in the Greek Periphery" (https://www.academia.edu/447534/Achaeme
nid_Toreutics_in_the_Greek_Periphery=), in Darabandi S.M.R. and A. Zournantzi (eds.), Ancient Greece
and Ancient Iran. Cross-Cultural Encounters, Athens 2008, pp. 339–353.
Persian History (http://www.persiansarenotarabs.com/persian-history)
Livius.org on Achaemenids (http://www.livius.org/aa-ac/achaemenians/achaemenians.html)
Swedish Contributions to the Archaeology of Iran (http://samla.raa.se/xmlui/bitstream/handle/raa/3156/2
007_168.pdf?sequence=1) Artikel i Fornvännen (2007) by Carl Nylander
ČIŠPIŠ (http://www.iranicaonline.org/articles/cispis-opers)
The Behistun Inscription (http://www.livius.org/be-bm/behistun/behistun01.html)
Livius.org on Achaemenid Royal Inscriptions (http://www.livius.org/aa-ac/achaemenians/inscriptions.htm
l)
Achaemenid art on Iran Chamber Society (www.iranchamber.com) (http://www.iranchamber.com/art/artic
les/art_of_achaemenids.php)
Persepolis Fortification Archive Project (http://persepolistablets.blogspot.com/)
Photos of the tribute bearers from the 23 satrapies of the Achaemenid empire, from Persepolis (http://ww
w.persianempire.info/AchaemenidArchitecture.htm#tribute)
medals and orders of the Persian empire (http://irancollection.alborzi.com/Coins,)
External links
Ancient Iran (http://en.tarikhema.ir/category/ancient/ancient-iran)
Dynasty Achaemenid (http://en.tarikhema.ir/category/ancient/ancient-iran/achaemenid-empire)
Iran, The Forgotten Glory – Documentary Film About Ancient Iran (achaemenids & Sassanids) (http://ww
w.farsmovie.com/eng/index.htm)
Achemenet (http://www.achemenet.com/) The major electronic resource for the study of the history,
literature and archaeology of the Persian Empire
Persepolis Before Incursion (http://www.virtualtourengine.com/tour.aspx?id=17&langindex=1) (Virtual
tour project)
Musée achéménide virtuel et interactif (Mavi) (https://web.archive.org/web/20061126081333/http://www.
museum-achemenet.college-de-france.fr/) a vast "Virtual Interactive Achemenide Museum" of more than
8000 items, dedicated to the inheritance of the Persian Empire, from Cyrus the Great to Alexander, is
now accessible on the Internet thanks to the initiative of a College de France professor, Pierre Briant.
Persian history in detail (http://persianpast.com/)
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Achaemenid_Empire&oldid=866279579"
